STAR WARS 1

ANOTHER galaxy, another time. 

The Old Republic was the Republic of legend, 
greater than distance or time. No need to note where 
it was or whence it came, only to know that... it was 
the Republic. 

Once, under the wise rule of the Senate and the 
protection of the Jedi Knights, the Republic throve 
and grew. But as often happens when wealth and 
power pass beyond the admirable and attain the awe- 
some, then appear those evil ones who have greed to 
match. 

So it was with the Republic at its height. Like the 
preatest of trees, able to withstand any external attack, 
the Republic rotted from within though the danger 
was not visible from outside. 

Aided and abetted by restless, power-hungry indi- 
viduals within the government, and the massive organs 
of commerce, the ambitious Senator Palpatine caused 
himself to be elected President of the Republic. He 
promised to reunite the disaffected among the people 
and to restore the remembered glory of the Republic. 

Once secure in office he declared himself Emperor, 
shutting himself away from the populace. Soon he was 
controlled by the very assistants and boot-lickers he 
had appointed to high office, and the cries of the Peo- 
ple for justice did not reach his ears. 

Having exterminated through treachery and decep- 
tion the Jedi Knights, guardians of justice in the gal- 
axy, the Imperial governors and bureaucrats prepared 
to institute a reign of terror among the disheartened 
worlds of the galaxy. Many used the imperial forces 
and the name of the increasingly isolated Emperor to 
further their own personal ambitions, 


2 STAR WARS 


But a small number of systems rebelled at these 
new outrages. Declaring themselves opposed to the 
New Order they began the great battle to restore the 
Old Republic. 

From the beginning they were vastly outnumbered 
by the systems held in thrall by the Emperor. In those 
first dark days it seemed certain the bright flame of 
resistance would be extinguished before it could cast 
the light of new truth across a galaxy of oppressed and 
beaten peoples... 


From the First Saga 
Journal of the Whills 


“They were in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
Naturally they became heroes.” 
Leia Organa of Alderaan, Senator 


IT was a vast, shining globe and it cast a light of 
lambent topaz into space—but it was not a sun. Thus, 
the planet had fooled men for a long time. Not until 
entering close orbit around it did its discoverers real- 
ize that this was a world in a binary system and not a 
third sun itself. ; 

At first it seemed certain nothing could exist on such 
a planet, least of all humans. Yet both massive G1 
and G2 stars orbited a common center with peculiar 
regularity, and Tatooine circled them far enough out 
to permit the development of a rather stable, if ex- 
quisitely hot, climate. Mostly this was a dry desert 
of a world, whose unusual starlike yellow glow was 
the result of double sunlight striking sodium-rich 
sands and flats. That same sunlight suddenly shone on 
the thin skin of a metallic shape falling crazily toward 
the atmosphere. 


The erratic course the galactic cruiser was traveling 
was intentional, not the product of injury but of a des- 
perate desire to avoid it. Long streaks of intense en- 
ergy slid close past its hull, a multihued storm of 
destruction like a school of rainbow remoras fighting 
to attach themselves to a larger, unwilling host. 

One of those probing, questing beams succeeded in 
touching the fleeing ship, striking its principal solar 
fin. Gemlike fragments of metal and plastic erupted 
into space as the end of the fin disintegrated. The 
vessel seemed to shudder. 

The source of those multiple energy beams sud- 
denly hove into view—a lumbering Imperial cruiser, 
its massive outline bristling cactuslike with dozens of 


4 STAR WARS 


heavy weapons emplacements. Light ceased arching 
from those spines now as the cruiser moved in close. 
Intermittent explosions and flashes of light could be 
seen in those portions of the smaller ship which had 
taken hits. In the absolute cold of space, the cruiser 
snuggled up alongside its wounded prey. 

Another distant explosion shook the ship—but it 
certainly didn’t feel distant to Artoo Detoo or See 
Threepio. The concussion bounced them around the 
narrow corridor like bearings in an old motor. 

To look at these two, one would have supposed that 
the tall, human-like machine, Threepio, was the mas- 
ter and the stubby, tripodal robot, Artoo Detoo, an 
inferior. But while Threepio might have sniffed dis- 
dainfully at the suggestion, they were in fact equal in 
everything save loquacity, Here Threepio was clearly 
—and necessarily—--the superior. 

Still another explosion rattled the corridor, throwing 
Threepio off balance. His shorter companion had the 
better of it during such moments with his squat, cy- 
lindrical body’s low center of gravity well balanced 
on thick, clawed legs. 

Artoo glanced up at Threepio, who was steadying 
himself against a corridor wall. Lights blinked enig- 
matically around a single mechanical eye as the 
smaller robot studied the battered casing of his friend. 
A patina of metal and fibrous dust coated the usu- 
ually gleaming bronze finish, and there were some vis- 
ible dents—all the result of the pounding the rebel 
ship they were on had been taking. 

Accompanying the last attack was a persistent deep 
hum which even the loudest explosion had not been 
able to drown out. Then for no apparent reason, the 
basso thrumming abruptly ceased, and the only 
sounds in the otherwise deserted corridor came from 
the eerie dry-twig crackle of shorting relays. or the 
pops of dying circuitry. Explosions began to echo 
through the ship once more, but they were far away 
from the corridor. 

Threepio turned his smooth, humanlike head to one 


STAR WARS 5 


side. Metallic ears listened intently. The imitation 
of a human pose was hardly necessary—Threepio’s 
auditory sensors were fully omnidirectional—but the 
slim robot had been programmed to blend perfectly 
among human company. This programming extended 
even to mimicry of human gestures. 

“Did you hear that?” he inquired rhetorically of 
his patient companion, referring to the throbbing 
sound. “They’ve shut down the main reactor and 
the drive.” His voice was as full of disbelief and con- 
cern as that of any human. One metallic palm rubbed 
dolefully at a patch of dull gray on his side, where 
a broken hull brace had fallen and scored the 
bronze finish. Threepio was a fastidious machine, and 
such things troubled him. 

“Madness, this is madness.” He shook his head 
slowly. “This time we'll be destroyed for sure.” 

Artoo did not comment immediately. Barrel torso 
tilted backward, powerful legs gripping the deck, the 
meter-high robot was engrossed in studying the roof 
overhead. Though he did not have a head to cock 
in a listening posture like his friend, Artoo still 
somehow managed to convey that impression. A se- 
ries of short beeps and chirps issued from his speaker. 
To even a sensitive human ear they would have been 
just so much static, but to Threepio they formed words 
as clear and pure as direct current. 

“Yes, I suppose they did have to shut the drive 
down,” Threepio admitted, “but what are we going to 
do now? We can’t enter atmosphere with our main 
stablizer fin destroyed. I can’t believe we’re simply 
going to surrender.” 

A small band of armed humans suddenly appeared, 
rifles held at the ready. Their expressions were as 
worry-wrinkled as their uniforms, and they carried 
about them the aura of men prepared to die. 

Threepio watched silently until they had vanished 
around a far bend in the passageway, then looked back 
at Artoo. The smaller robot hadn’t shifted from his 
position of listening. Threepio’s gaze turned upward 


6 STAR WARS 


also though he knew Artoo’s senses were slightly 
sharper than his own. 

“What is it, Artoo?” A short burst of beeping came 
in response. Another moment, and there was no need 
for highly attuned sensors. For a minute or two more, 
the corridor remained deathly silent. Then a faint 
Scrape, scrape could be heard, like a cat at a door, 
from somewhere above. That strange noise was pro- 
duced by heavy footsteps and the movement of bulky 
equipment somewhere on the ship’s hull. 

When several muffled explosions sounded, Threepio 
murmured, “They’ve broken in somewhere above us. 
There’s no escape for the Captain this time.” Turning, 
he peered down at Artoo. I think we’d better—” 

The shriek of overstressed metal filled the air before 
he could finish, and the far end of the passageway was 
lit by a blinding actinic flash. Somewhere down there 
the little cluster of armed crew who had passed by 
minutes before had encountered the shin’s attackers. 

Threepio turned his face and delicate photorecep- 
tors away—just in time to avoid the fragments of 
metal that flew down the corridor. At the far end a 
gaping hole appeared in the roof, and reflective forms 
like big metal beads began dropping to the corti- 
dor floor. Both robots knew that no machine could 
match the fluidity with which those shapes moved 
and instantly assumed fighting postures. The new ar- 
rivals were humans in armor, not mechanicals. 

One of them looked straight at Threepio—no, not 
at him, the panicked robot throught frantically, but 
past him. The figure shifted its big rifle around in 
armored hands—too late. A beam of intense light 
struck the head, sending pieces of armor, bone, and 
flesh flying in all directions. 

Half the invading Imperial troops turned and began 
feturning fire up the corridor—aiming past the two 
robots. 

“Quick—this way!” Threepio ordered, intending to 
retreat from the Imperials. Artoo tured with him. 
They had taken only a couple of steps when they 


STAR WARS 7 


saw the rebel crewmen in position ahead, firing down 
the corridor. In seconds the passageway was filled with 
smoke and crisscrossing beams of energy. 

Red, green and blue bolts ricocheted off polished 
sections of wall and floor or ripped long gashes in 
metal surfaces. Screams of injured and dying humans 
—a peculiarly unrobotic sound, Threepio thought— 
echoed piercingly above the inorganic destruction. 

One beam struck near the robot’s feet at the same 
time as a second one burst the wall directly behind 
him, exposing sparking circuitry and rows of conduits. 
The force of the twin blast tumbled Threepio into the 
shredded cables, where a dozen different currents 
turned him into a jerking, twisting display. 

Strange sensations coursed through his metal nerve- 
ends. They caused no pain, only confusion. Every time 
he moved and tried to free himself there was another 
violent crackling as a fresh cluster of componentry 
broke. The noise and man-made lightning remained 
constant around him as the battle continued to rage. 

Smoke began to fill the corridor. Artoo Detoo bus- 
tled about trying to help free his friend. The little 
robot evidenced a phlegmatic indifference to the raven- 
ing energies filling the passageway. He was built so 
low that most of the beams passed over him any- 
how. 

“Help!” Threepio yelled, suddenly frichtened at a 
new message from an internal sensor. “I think some- 
thing is melting. Free my left leg—the trouble’s near 
the pelvic servomotor.” Typically, his tone turned 
abruptly from pleading to berating. 

“This is all your fault!” he shouted angrily. “T 
should have known better than to trust the logic of a 
half-sized thermocapsulary dehousing assister. 1 don’t 
know why you insisted we leave our assigned stations 
to come down this stupid access corridor. Not that it 
matters now. The whole ship must be—” Artoo Detoo 
cut him off in midspeech with some angry beepings 
and hoots of his own, though he continued to cut and 
pull with precision at the tangled high-voltage cables. 


8 STAR WARS 


“Is that so?” Threepio sneered in reply. “The same 
to you, you little... 1” 

An exceptionally violent explosion shook the pas- 
sage, drowning him out. A lung-searing miasma of 
carbonized component filled the air, obscuring every- 
thing. 


Two meters tall. Bipedal. Flowing black robes trail- 
ing from the figure and a face forever masked by a 
functional if bizarre black metal breath screen—a 
Dark Lord of the Sith was an awesome, threatening 
shape as it strode through the corridors of the rebel 
ship. 

Fear followed the footsteps of all the Dark Lords. 
The cloud of evil which clung tight about this particu- 
lar one was intense enough to cause hardened Imperial 
troops to back away, menacing enough to set them 
muttering nervously among themselves. Once-resolute 
tebel crewmembers ceased resisting, broke and ran 
in panic at the sight of the black armor—armor- 
which, though black as it was, was not nearly as dark 
as the thoughts drifting through the mind within. 

One purpose, one thought, one obsession dominated 
that mind now. It burned in the brain of Darth Vader 
as he turned down another passageway in the broken 
fighter. There smoke was beginning to clear, though 
the sounds of faraway fighting still resounded through 
the hull. The battle here had ended and moved on. 

Only a robot was left to stir freely in the wake of 
the Dark Lord’s passing. See Threepio finally stepped 
clear of the last restraining cable. Somewhere behind 
him human screams could be heard from where re- 
lentless Imperial troops were mopping up the last 
remnants of rebel resistance. 

Threepio glanced down and saw only scarred deck. 
As he looked around, his voice was full of concern. 
“Artoo Detoo—where are you?” The smoke seemed 
to part just a bit more. Threepio found himself staring 
up the passageway. 

Artoo Detoo, it seemed, was there. But he wasn’t 


STAR WARS 9 


looking in Threepio’s direction. Instead, the little 
robot appeared frozen in an attitude of attention. 
Leaning over him was—it was difficult for even 
Threepio’s electronic photoreceptors to penetrate the 
clinging, acidic smoke—a human figure. It was young, 
slim, and by abstruse human standards of aesthetics, 
Threepio mused, of a calm beauty. One small hand 
seemed to be moving over the front of Artoo’s torso. 

Threepio started toward them as the haze thickened 
once more. But when he reached the end of the cor- 
tidor, only Artoo stood there, waiting. Threepio 
peered past him, uncertain. Robots were occasionally 
subject to electronic hallucinations—but why should 
he hallucinate a human? 

He shrugged . . . Then again, why not, especially 
when one considered the confusing circumstances of 
the past hour and the dose of raw current he had 
recently absorbed. He shouldn’t be surprised at any- 
thing his concatenated internal circuits conjured up. 

“Where have you been?” Threepio finally asked. 
“Hiding, I suppose.” He decided not to mention the 
maybe-human. If it had been a hallucination, he 
wasn’t going to give Artoo the satisfaction of know- 
ing how badly recent events had unsettled his logic 
circuits. 

“They'll be coming back this way,” he went on, 
nodding down the corridor and not giving the small 
automaton a chance to reply, “looking for human 
survivors. What are we going to do now? They won't 
trust the word of rebel-owned machines that we don’t 
know anything of value. We'll be sent to the spice 
mines of Kessel or taken apart for spare components 
for other, less deserving robots. That’s if they don’t 
consider us potential program traps and blow us apart 
on sight. If we don’t .. .” But Artoo had already 
turned and was ambling quickly back down the pas- 
sapeway. 

“Wait, where are you going? Haven’t you been lis- 
tening to me?” Uttering curses in several languages, 
some purely mechanical, Threepio raced fluidly after 


10 STAR WARS 


his friend. The Artoo unit, he thought to himself, 
could be downright close-circuited when it wanted to. 


Outside the galactic cruiser’s control center the cor- 
ridor was crowded with sullen prisoners gathered by 
Imperial troops. Some lay wounded, some dying. Sev- 
eral officers had been separated from the enlisted 
ranks and stood in a small group by themselves, be- 
stowing belligerent looks and threats on the silent knot 
of troops holding them at bay. 

As if on command, everyone—Imperial troops as 
well as rebels—became silent as a massive caped form 
came into view from behind a turn in the passage. 
Two of the heretofore resolute, obstinate rebel offi- 
cers began to shake. Stopping before one of the men, 
the towering figure reached out wordlessly. A massive 
hand closed around the man’s neck and lifted him off 
the deck. The rebel officer’s eyes bulged, but he kept 
his silence. : 

An Imperial officer, his armored helmet shoved 
back to reveal a recent scar where an energy beam 
had penetrated his shielding, scrambled down out of 
the fighter’s control room, shaking his head briskly. 
“Nothing, sit. Information retrieval system’s been 
wiped clean.” 

Darth Vader acknowledged this news with a barely 
perceptible nod. The impenetrable mask turned to re- 
gard the officer he was torturing. Metal-clad fingers 
contracted. Reaching up, the prisoner desperately 
tried to pry them loose, but to no avail. 

“Where is the data you intercepted?” Vader rum- 
bled dangerously. “What have you done with the in- 
formation tapes?” 

“We—intercepted—no information,” the dangling 
officer gurgled, barely able to breathe. From some- 
where deep within, he dredged up a squeal of outrage. 


“This isa... councilor vessel... Did you not see our 
... exterior markings? We’re on a... diplomatic... 
mission.” 


“Chaos take your mission!” Vader growled. “Where 


STAR WARS 11 


are those tapes!” He squeezed harder, the threat in his 
grip implicit. 

When he finally replied, the officer’s voice was a 
bare, choked whisper. “Only . . . the Commander 
knows.” 

“This ship carries the system crest of Alderaan,” 
Vader growled, the gargoylelike breath mask lean- 
ing close, “Is any of the royal family on board? Who 
are you carrying?” Thick fingers tightened further, 
and the officer’s struggles became more and more 
frantic. His last words were muffled and choked past 
intelligibility. 

Vader was not pleased. Even though the figure went 
limp with an. awful, unquestionable finality, that 
hand continued to tighten, producing a chilling snap- 
ping and popping of bone, like a dog padding on 
plastic. Then with a disgusted wheeze Vader finally 
threw the doll-form of the dead man against a far 
wall. Several Imperial troops ducked out of the way 
just in time to avoid the grisly missile. 

The massive form whirled unexpectedly, and Im- 
perial officers shrank under that baleful sculptured 
stare. “Start tearing this ship apart piece by piece, 
component by component, until you find those tapes. 
As for the passengers, if any, I want them alive.” 
He paused a moment, then added, “Quickly!” 

Officers and men nearly fell over themselves in 
their haste to leave—not necessarily to carry out 
Vader’s orders, but simply to retreat from that malev- 
olent presence. 


Artoo Detoo finally came to a halt in an empty 
corridor devoid of smoke and the signs of battle. A 
worried, confused Threepio pulled up behind him. 

“You've led us through half the ship, and to 
what ...?” He broke off, staring in disbelief as the 
squat robot reached up with one clawed limb and 
snapped the seal on a lifeboat hatch. Immediately a 
red warning light came on and a low hooting 
sounded in the corridor. 


12 STAR WARS 


Threepio looked wildly in all directions, but the 
passageway remained empty. When he looked back, 
Artoo was already working his way into the cramped 
boat pod. It was just large enough to hold several 
humans, and its design was not laid out to accom- 
modate mechanicals. Artoo had some trouble negotiat- 
ing the awkward little compartment. 

“Hey,” a startled Threepio called, admonishing, 
“you're not permitted in there! It’s restricted to hu- 
mans only. We just might be able to convince the 
Imperials that we’re not rebel programmed and are 
too valuable to break up, but if someone sees you in 
there we haven’t got a chance. Come on out.” 

Somehow Artoo had succeeded in wedging his body 
into position in front of the miniature control board. 
He cocked his body slightly and threw a stream of 
loud beeps and whistles at his reluctant companion. 

Threepio listened. He couldn’t frown, but he man- 
aged to give a good impression of doing so. “Mission 
. .. what mission? What are you talking about? You 
sound like you haven’t got an integrated logic terminal 
left in your brain. No . . . no more adventures. Pll 
take my chances with the Imperials—and I’m not 
getting in there.” 

An angry electronic twang came from the Artoo 
unit. 

“Don’t call me a mindless philosopher,” Threepio 
snapped back, “you overweight, unstreamlined glob 
of grease!” 

Threepio was concocting an additional rejoinder 
when an explosion blew out the back wall of the cor- 
tidor. Dust and metal debris whooshed through the 
narrow subpassageway, followed instantly by a series 
of secondary explosions. Flames began jumping hun- 
grily from the exposed interior wall, reflecting off 
Threepio’s isolated patches of polished skin. 

Muttering the electronic equivalent of consigning his 
soul to the unknown, the lanky robot jumped into the 
life pod. “I’m going to regret this,” he muttered more 
audibly as Artoo activated the safety door behind 


STAR WARS 13 


him. The smaller robot flipped a series of switches, 
snapped back a cover, and pressed three buttons in a 
certain sequence. With the thunder of explosive latches 
the life pod ejected from the crippled fighter. 


When word came over the communicators that 
the last pocket of resistance on the rebel ship had 
been cleaned out, the Captain of the Imperial cruiser 
relaxed considerably. He was listening with pleasure 
to the proceedings on the captured vessel when one of 
his chief gunnery officers called to him. Moving to 
the man’s position, the Captain stared into the cir- 
cular viewscreen and saw a tiny dot dropping away 
toward the fiery world below. 

“There goes another pod, sir. Instructions?” The of- 
ficer’s hand hovered over a computerized energy bat- 
tery. 

Casually, confident in the firepower and total con- 
trol under his command, the Captain studied the 
nearby readouts monitoring the pod. All of them read 
blank. 

“Hold your fire, Lieutenant Hija. Instruments show 
no life forms aboard. The pod’s release mechanism 
must have short-circuited or received a false instruc- 
tion. Don’t waste your power.” He turned away, to 
listen with satisfaction to the reports of captured men 
and material coming from the rebel ship. 


Glare from exploding panels and erupting circuitry 
teflected crazily off the armor of the lead storm 
trooper as he surveyed the passageway ahead. He was 
about to turn and call for those behind to follow him 
forward when he noticed something moving off to one 
side. It appeared to be crouching back in a small, 
dark alcove. Holding his pistol ready, he moved 
cautiously forward and peered into the recess. 

A small, shivering figure clad in flowing white 
hugged the back of the recess and stared up at the 
man. Now he could see that he faced a young woman, 
and her physical description fit that of the one indi- 


14 STAR WARS 


vidual the Dark Lord was most interested in. The 
trooper grinned behind his helmet. A lucky encounter 
for him. He would be commended. 

Within the armor his head turned slightly, directing 
his voice to the tiny condenser microphone. “Here she 
is,’ he called to those behind him. “Set for stun 
forc—” 

He never finished the sentence, just as he would 
never receive the hoped-for commendation. Once his 
attention turned from the girl to his communicator 
her shivering vanished with startling speed. The en- 
ergy pistol she had held out of sight behind her came 
up and around as she burst from her hiding place. 

The trooper who had been unlucky enough to find 
her fell first, his head a mass of melted bone and 
metal. The same fate met the second armored form 
coming up fast behind him. Then a bright green en- 
ergy pole touched the woman’s side and she slumped 
instantly to the deck, the pistol still locked in her 
small palm. 

Metal-encased shapes clustered around her. One 
whose arm bore the insignia of a lower officer knelt 
and turned her over. He studied the paralyzed form 
with a practiced eye. 


“She’ll be all right,” he finally declared, looking up 
at his subordinates. “Report to Lord Vader.” 


Threepio stared, mesmerized, out the small view- 
port set in the front of the tiny escape pod as the hot 
yellow eye of Tatooine began to swallow them up. 
Somewhere behind them, he knew, the crippled fighter 
aod the Imperial cruiser were receding to impercepti- 
bility. * 

That was fine with him. If they landed near a 
civilized city, he would seek elegant employment in a 
halcyon atmosphere, something more befitting his sta- 
tus and training. These past months had gifted him 
with entirely too much excitement and unpredictabil- 
ity for a mere machine. 


STAR WARS 15 


Artoo’s seemingly random manipulation of the pod 
controls promised anything but a smooth landing, 
however. Threepio regarded his squat companion with 
concer. 

“Are you sure you know how to pilot this thing?” 

Artoo replied with a noncommitial whistle that did 
nothing to alter the taller robot’s jangled state of mind. 


LI Il 


It was an old settlers’ saying that you could burn 
your eyes out faster by staring straight and hard at 
the sun-scorched flatlands of Tatooine than by look- 
ing directly at its two huge suns themselves, so power- 
ful was the penetrating glare reflected from those 
endless wastes. Despite the glare, life could and did 
exist in the flatlands formed by long-evaporated sea~ 
beds. One thing made it possible: the reintroduction 
of water. 

For human purposes, however, the water of Tatooine 
was only marginally accessible. The atmosphere 
yielded its moisture with reluctance. It had to be 
coaxed down out of the hard blue sky—coaxed, 
forced, yanked down to the parched surface. 

Two figures whose concern was obtaining that 
moisture were standing on a slight rise of one of those 
inhospitable flats. One of the pair was stiff and metal- 
lic—a sand-pitted vaporator sunk securely through 
sand and into deeper rock. The figure next to it was a 
good deal more animated, though no less sun- 
weathered. 

Luke Skywalker was twice the age of the ten-year- 
old vaporator, but much less secure. At the moment 
he was swearing softly at a recalcitrant valve adjuster 
on the temperamental device. From time to time he 
resorted to some unsubtle pounding in place of using 


16 STAR WARS 


the appropriate tool. Neither method worked very 
well. Luke was sure. that the lubricants used on the 
vaporators went out of their way to attract sand, 
beckoning seductively to small abrasive particles with 
an oily gleam. He wiped sweat from his forehead and 
leaned back for a moment. The most prepossessing 
thing about the young man was his name. A light 
breeze tugged at his shaggy hair and baggy work tunic 
as he regarded the device. No point in staying angry 
at it, he counseled himself. It’s only an unintelligent 
machine. 

As Luke considered his predicament, a third figure 
appeared, scooting out from behind the vaporator to 
fumble awkwardly at the damaged section. Only three 
of the Treadwell model robot’s six arms were func- 
tioning, and these had seen more wear than the boots 
on Luke’s feet. The machine moved with unsteady, 
stop-and-start motions. 

Luke gazed. at it sadly, then inclined his head to 
study the sky. Still no sign of a cloud, and he knew 
there never would be unless he got that vaporator 
working. He was about to try once again when a 
small, intense gleam of light caught his eye. Quickly 
he slipped the carefully cleaned set of macrobinoculars 
from his utility belt and focused the lenses skyward. 

For long moments he stared, wishing all the while 
that he had a real telescope instead of the binocs. As 
he stared, vaporators, the heat, and the day’s remain- 
ing chores were forgotten. Clipping the binoculars 
back onto his belt, Luke turned and dashed for the 
landspeeder. Halfway to the vehicle he thought to 
call behind him. 

“Hurry up,” he shouted impatiently. “What are you 
waiting for? Get it in gear.” 

The Treadwell started toward him, hesitated, and 
then commenced spinning in a tight circle, smoke 
belching from every joint. Luke shouted further in- 
structions, then finally gave up in disgust when he real- 
ized that it would take more than words to motivate 
the Treadwell again. 


STAR WARS 17 


For a moment Luke hesitated at leaving the ma- 
chine behind—but, he argued to himself, its vital 
components were obviously shot. So he jumped into 
the landspeeder, causing the recently repaired repul- 
sion floater to list alarmingly to one side until he 
was able to equalize weight distribution by sliding be- 
hind the controls. Maintaining its altitude slightly 
above the sandy ground, the light-duty transport ve- 
hicle steadied itself like a boat in a heavy sea. Luke 
gunned the engine, which whined in protest, and sand 
erupted behind the floater as he aimed the craft to- 
ward the distant town of Anchorhead. 

Behind him, a pitiful beacon of black smoke from 
the burning robot continued to rise into the clear 
desert air. It wouldn’t be there when Luke returned. 
There were scavengers of metal as well as flesh in 
the wide wastes of Tatooine. 


Metal and stone structures bleached white by the 
glaze of twin Tatoo I and II huddled together tightly, 
for company as much as for protection. They formed 
the nexus of the widespread farming community of 
Anchorhead, 

Presently the dusty, unpaved streets were quiet, 
deserted. Sandflies buzzed lazily in the cracked eaves 
of pourstone buildings. A dog barked in the distance, 
the sole sign of habitation until a lone old woman 
appeared and started across the street. Her metallic 
sun shawl was pulled tight around her. 

Something made her look up, tired eyes squinting 
into the distance. The sound suddenly leaped in vol- 
ume as a shining rectangular shape came roaring 
around a far comer. Her eyes popped as the vehicle 
bore down on her, showing no sign of altering its path. 
She had to scramble to get out of its way. 

Panting and waving an angry fist after the Jand- 
speeder, she raised her voice over the sound of its 
passage. ““Won’t you kids ever learn to slow down!” 

Luke might have seen her, but he certainly didn’t 
hear her. In both cases his attention was focused else- 


18 STAR WARS 


where as he pulled up behind a low, long concrete 
station. Various coils and rods jutted from its top and 
sides. Tatooine’s relentless sand waves broke in frozen 
yellow spume against the station’s walls. No one had 
bothered to clear them away. There was no point. 
They would only return again the following day. 

Luke slammed the front door aside and shouted, 
“Hey!” 

A rugged young man in mechanic’s dress sat 
sprawled in a chair behind the station’s unkempt con- 
trol desk. Sunscreen oil had kept his skin from burn- 
ing. The skin of the girl on his lap had been equally 
protected, and there was a great deal more of the 
protected area in view. Somehow even dried sweat 
looked good on her. 

“Hey, everybody!” Luke yelled again, having 
elicited something less than an overwhelming response 
with his first cry. He ran toward the instrument room 
at the rear of the station while the mechanic, half 
asleep, ran a hand across his face and mumbled, “Did 
I hear a young noise blast through here?” 

The girl on his lap stretched sensuously, her well- 
worn clothing tugging in various intriguing directions. 
Her voice was casually throaty. “Oh,” she yawned, 
“that was just Wormie on one of his rampages.” 

Deak and Windy looked up from the computer- 
assisted pool game as Luke burst into the room. They 
were dressed much like Luke, although their clothing 
was of better fit and somewhat less exercised. 

All three youths contrasted strikingly with the 
burly, handsome player at the far side of the table. 
From neatly clipped hair to his precision-cut uniform 
he stood out in the room like an Oriental poppy in 
a sea of oats. Behind the three humans a soft hum 
came from where a repair robot was working patiently 
on a broken piece of station equipment. 

“Shape it up, you guys,” Luke yelled excitedly. 
Then he noticed the older man in the uniform. The 
subject of his suddenly startled gaze recognized bim 
simultaneously. ; 


STAR WARS 19 


“Biggs!” 

The man’s face twisted in a half grin. “Hello, 
Luke.” Then they were embracing each other warmly. 

Luke finally stood away, openly admiring the 
other’s uniform. “I didn’t know you were back. When 
did you get in?” 

The confidence in the other’s voice bordered the 
realm of smugness without quite entering it. “Just a 
little while ago. I wanted to surprise you, hotshot.” He 
indicated the room. “I thought you'd be here with 
these other two nightcrawlers.” Deak and Windy both 
smiled. “I certainly didn’t expect you to be out work- 
ing.” He laughed easily, a laugh few people found 
resistible. 

“The academy didn’t change you much,” Luke 
commented. “But you’re back so soon.” His expression 
grew concerned. “Hey, what happened—didn’t you 
get your commission?” 

There was something evasive about Biggs as he 
replied, looking slightly away, “Of course I got it. 
Signed to serve aboard the freighter Rand Ecliptic 
just last week. First Mate Biggs Darklighter, at your 
service.” He performed a twisting salute, half se- 
rious and half humorous, then grinned that overbear- 
ing yet ingratiating grin again. 

“I just came back to say good-bye to all you un- 
fortunate landlocked simpletons.” They all laughed, 
until Luke suddenly remembered what had brought 
him here in such a hurry. 

“T almost forgot,” he told them, his initial excite- 
ment returning, “there’s a battle going on right here 
in our system. Come and look.” . 

Deak looked disappointed. “Not another one of 
your epic battles, Luke. Haven’t you dreamed up 
enough of them? Forget it.” 

“Forget it, hell—I'm serious. It’s a battle, all right.” 

With words and shoves he managed to cajole the 
occupants of the station out into the strong sunlight. 
Camie in particular looked disgusted. 


20 STAR WARS 


“This had better be worth it, Luke,” she warned 
him, shading her eyes against the glare. 

Luke already had his macrobinoculars out and was 
searching the heavens. It took only a moment for 
him to fix on a particular spot, “I told you,” he in- 
sisted. “There they are.” 

Biggs moved alongside him and reached for the 
binoculars as the others strained unaided eyes. A 
slight readjustment provided just enough magnifica- 
tion for Biggs to make out two silvery specks against 
the dark blue. 

“That’s no battle, hotshot,” he decided, lowering 
the binocs and regarding his friend gently. “They're 
just sitting there. Two ships, all right—probably a 
barge loading a freighter, since Tatooine hasn’t got an 
orbital station.” 

“There was a lot of firing—earlier,” Luke added. 
His initial enthusiasm was beginning to falter under 
the withering assurance of his older friend. 

Camie grabbed the binoculars away from Biggs, 
banging them slightly against a support pillar in the 
process. Luke took them away from her quickly, in- 
specting the casing for damage. “Take it easy with 
those.” 

“Don’t worry so much, Wormie,” she sneered. Luke 
took a step toward her, then halted as the huskier 
mechanic easily interposed himself between them and 
favored Luke with a warning smile. Luke considered, 
shrugged the incident away. 

“I keep telling you, Luke,” the mechanic said, 
with the air of a man tired of repeating the same 
story to no avail, “the rebellion is a long way from 
here. I doubt if the Empire would fight to keep this 
system. Believe me, Tatooine is a big hunk of noth- 
ing.” 

His audience began to fade back into the station 
before Luke could mutter a reply. Fixer had his arm 
around Camie, and the two of them were chuckling 
over Luke’s ineptitude. Even Deak and Windy were 


STAR WARS 21 


murmuring among themselves—about him, Luke was 
certain. 

He followed them, but not without a last glance 
back and up to the distant specks. One thing he was 
sure of were the flashes of light he had seen between 
the two ships. They hadn’t been caused by the suns 
of Tatooine reflecting off metal. 


The binding that locked the girl’s hands behind her 
back was primitive and effective. The constant atten- 
tion the squad of heavily armed troopers favored her 
with might have been out of place for one small fe- 
male, except for the fact that their lives depended on 
her being delivered safely. 

When she deliberately slowed her pace, however, 
it became apparent that her captors did not mind mis- 
treating her a little. One of the armored figures 
shoved her brutally in the small of the back, and 
she nearly fell. Turning, she gave the offending soldier 
a vicious look. But she could not tell if it had any ef- 
fect, since the man’s face was completely hidden by 
his armored helmet. 

The hallway they eventually emerged into was still 
smoking around the edges of the smoldering cavity 
blasted through the hull of the fighter. A portable 
accessway had been sealed to it and a circlet of light 
showed at the far end of the tunnel, bridging space 
between the rebel craft and the cruiser. A shadow 
moved over her as she turned from inspecting the 
accessway, startling her despite her usually unshaka- 
ble self-control. 

Above her towered the threatening bulk of Darth 
Vader, red eyes glaring behind the hideous breath 
mask. A muscle twitched in one smooth cheek, but 
other than that the girl didn’t react. Nor was there 
the slightest shake in her voice. 

“Darth Vader . . . I should have known. Only you 
would be so bold—and so stupid. Well. the Imperial 
Senate will not sit still for this. When they hear that 
you have attacked a diplomatic miss—” 


22 STAR WARS 


“Senator Leia Organa,” Vader rumbled softly, 
though strongly enough to override her protests. His 
pleasure at finding her was evident in the way he sa- 
vored every syllable. 

“Don’t play games with me, Your Highness,” he 
continued ominously. “You aren’t on any mercy mis- 
sion this time. You passed directly through a restricted 
system, ignoring numerous warnings and completely 
disregarding orders to turn about—until it no longer 
mattered.” 

The huge metal skull dipped close. “I know that 
several transmissions were beamed to this vessel by 
spies within that system. When we traced those trans- 
missions back to the individuals with whom they 
originated, they had the poor grace to kill themselves 
before they could be questioned. I want to know what 
happened to the data they sent you.” 

Neither Vader’s words nor his inimical presence 
appeared to have any effect on the girl. “I don’t know 
what you’re blathering about,” she snapped, looking 
away from him. “I’m a member of the Senate on a 
diplomatic mission to—” 

“To your part of the rebel alliance,” Vader de- 
clared, cutting her off accusingly. “You’re also a 
traitor.” His gaze went to a nearby officer. “Take her 
away.” 

She succeeded in reaching him with her spit, which 
hissed against still-hot battle armor. He wiped the of- 
fensive matter away silently, watching her with 
interest as she was marched through the accessway 
into the cruiser. 

A tall, slim soldier wearing the sign of an Imperial 
Commander attracted Vader’s attention as he came 
up next to him. “Holding her is dangerous,” he ven- 
tured, likewise looking after her as she was escorted 
toward the cruiser. “If word of this does get out, there 
will be much unrest in the Senate. It will generate 
sympathy for the rebels.” The Commander looked up 
at the unreadable metal face, then added in an off- 


STAR WARS 23 


handed manner, “She should be destroyed immedi- 
ately.” 

“No. My first duty is to locate that hidden fortress 
of theirs,” Vader replied easily. “AII the rebel spies 
have been eliminated—by our hand or by their own. 
Therefore she is now my only key to discovering 
its location. I intend to make full use of her. If nec- 
essary, I will use her up—but I will learn the location 
of the rebel base.” 

The Commander pursed his lips, shook his head 
slightly, perhaps a bit sympathetically, as he consid- 
ered the woman. “She'll die before she gives you 
any information.” Vader’s reply was chilling in its 
indifference. “Leave that to me.” He considered a 
moment, then went on. “Send out a wide-band distress 
signal. Indicate that the Senator’s ship encountered 
an unexpected meteorite cluster it could not avoid. 
Readings indicate that the shift shields were overriden 
and the ship was hulled to the point of vacating 
ninety-five percent of its atmosphere. Inform her 
father and the Senate that all aboard were killed.” 

A cluster of tired-looking troops marched purpose- 
fully up to their Commander and the Dark Lord. 
Vader eyed them expectantly. 

“The data tanes in question are not aboard the ship. 
There is no valuable information in the ship’s storage 
banks and no evidence of bank erasure,” the officer 
in charge recited mechanically. “Nor were any trans- 
missions directed outward from the ship from the time 
we made contact. A malfunctioning lifeboat pod was 
ejected during the fighting, but it was confirmed at 
the time that no life forms were on board.” 

Vader appeared thoughtful. “It could have been a 
malfunctioning pod,” he mused, “that. might also 
have contained the tapes. Tapes are not life forms. 
In all probability any native finding them would be 
ignorant of their importance and would likely clear 
them for his own use. Still . . . 

“Send down a detachment to retrieve them, or to 
make certain they are not in the pod,” he finally or- 


24 STAR WARS 


dered the Commander and attentive officer. “Be as 
subtle as possible; there is no need to attract attention, 
even on this miserable outpost world.” 

As the officer and troops departed, Vader turned 
his gaze back to the Commander. “Vaporize this 
fighter—we don’t want to leave anything. As for 
the pod, I cannot take the chance it was a simple 
malfunction. The data it might contain could prove 
too damaging. See to this personally, Commander. 
If those data tapes exist, they must be retrieved or 
destroyed at all costs.” Then he added with satisfac- 
tion, “With that accomplished and the Senator in 
our hands, we will see the end of this absurd rebel- 
lion.” 

“Tt shall be as you direct, Lord Vader,” the 
Commander acknowledged. Both men entered the ac- 
cessway to the cruiser. 


“What a forsaken place this is!” 

Threepio turned cautiously to look back at where 
the pod lay half buried in sand. His internal gyros 
were still unsteady from the rough landing. Landing! 
Mere application of the term unduly flattered his dull 
associate. 

On the other hand, he supposed he ought to be 
grateful they had come down in one piece. Although, 
he mused as he studied the barren landscape, he still 
wasn’t sure they were better off here than they would 
have been had they remained on the captured cruiser. 
High sandstone mesas dominated the skyline to one 
side. Every other direction showed only endless se- 
ries of marching dunes like long yellow teeth stretch- 
ing for kilometer on kilometer into the distance. Sand 
ocean blended into sky-glare until it was impossible 
to distinguish where one ended and the other began. 

A faint cloud of minute dust particles rose in their 
wake as the two robots marched away from the pod. 
That vehicle, its intended function fully discharged, 
was now quite useless. Neither robot had been de- 
signed for pedal locomotion on this kind of terrain, 


STAR WARS 25 


so they had to fight their way across the unstable sur- 
face. 

“We seem to have been made to suffer,” Threepio 
moaned in self-pity. “It’s a rotten existence.” Some- 
thing squeaked in his right leg and he winced. “I’ve 
got to rest before I fall apart. My internals still haven’t 
recovered from that headlong crash you called a 
landing.” 

He paused, but Artoo Detoo did not. The little au- 
tomaton had performed a sharp turn and was now 
ambling slowly but steadily in the direction of the 
Nearest outjut of mesa. 

“Hey,” Threepio yelled. Artoo ignored the call and 
continued striding. “Where do you think you’re go- 
ing?” 

Now Artoo paused, emitting a stream of electronic 
explanation as Threepio exhaustedly walked over to 
join him. 

“Well, I'm not going that way,” Threepio de- 
clared when Artoo had concluded his explanation. 
“It’s too rocky.” He gestured in the direction thev had 
been walking, at an angle away from the cliffs. “This 
way is much easier.” A metal hand waved dispar- 
agingly at the high mesas. “What makes you think 
there are any settlements that way, anyhow?” 

A long whistle issued from the depths of Artoo. 

“Don’t get technical with me,” Threepio warned. 
“T’ve had just about enough of your decisions.” 

Artoo beeped once. 

“All right, go your way, Threepio announced 
grandly. “You'll be sandlogged within a day, you 
nearsighted scrap pile.” He gave the Artoo unit a con- 
temptuous shove, sending the smaller robot tumbling 
down a slight dune. As it strugeled at the bottom to 
regain its feet, Threepio started off toward the 
blurred, glaring horizon, glancing back over his 
shoulder. “Don’t let me catch you following me, beg- 
ging for help,” he warmed, “because you won’t get it.” 

Below the crest of the dune. the Artoo unit righted 
itself. It paused briefly to clean its single electronic


26 STAR WARS 


eye with an auxiliary arm. Then it produced an elec- 
tronic squeal which was almost, though not quite, a 
human expression of rage. Humming quietly to itself 
then, it turned and trudged off toward the sandstone 
tidges as if nothing had happened. 

Several hours later a straining Threepio, his internal 
thermostat overloaded and edging dangerously toward 
overheat shutdown, struggled up the top of what he 
hoped was the last towering dune. Nearby, pillars and 
buttresses of bleached calcium, the bones of some 
enormous beast, formed an unpromising landmark. 
Reaching the crest of the dune, Threepio peered anx- 
iously ahead, Instead of the hoped-for greenery of hu- 
man civilization he saw only several dozen more 
dunes, identical in form and promise to the one he 
now stood upon. The farthest rose even higher than 
the one he presently surmounted. 

Threepio turned and looked back toward the now 
far-off rocky plateau, which was beginning to grow 
indistinct with distance and heat distortion. “You mal- 
functioning little twerp,” he muttered, unable even 
now to admit to himself that perhaps, just possibly, the 
Artoo unit might have been right. “This is all your 
fault. You tricked me into going this way, but you'll 
do no better.” 

Nor would he if he didn’t continue on. So he 
took a step forward and heard something grind dully 
within a leg joint. Sitting down in an electronic funk, 
he began picking sand from his encrusted joints. 

He could continue on his present course, he told 
himself. Or he could confess to an error in judgment 
and try to catch up again with Artoo Detoo, Neither 
prospect held much appeal for him. 

But there was a third choice. He could sit here, 
shining in the sunlight, unti] his joints locked, his in- 
ternals overheated, and the ultraviolet burned out his 
photoreceptors. He would become another monument 
to the destructive power of the binary, like the colossal 
organism whose picked corpse he had just encoun- 
tered. 


STAR WARS 27 


Already his receptors were beginning to go, he re- 
flected. It seemed he saw something moving in the 
distance. Heat distortion, probably. No—no—it was 
definitely light on metal, and it was moving toward 
him. His hopes soared. Ignoring the warnings from 
his damaged leg, he rose and began waving frantically. 

It was, he saw now, definitely a vehicle, though of 
a type unfamiliar to him. But a vehicle it was, and 
that implied intelligence and technology. 

He neglected in his excitement to consider the pos- 
sibility that it might not be of human origin. 


“So I cut off my power, shut down the afterburners, 
and dropped in low on Deak’s tail,” Luke finished, 
waving his arms wildly. He and Biggs were walking 
in the shade outside the power station. Sounds of 
metal being worked came from somewhere within, 
where Fixer had finally joined his robot assistant 
in performing repairs. 

“T was so close to him,” Luke continued excitedly, 
“I thought I was going to fry my instrumentation, As 
it was, I busted up the skyhopper pretty bad.” That 
recollection inspired a frown. 

“Uncle Owen was pretty upset. He grounded me 
for the rest of the season.” Luke’s depression was 
brief. Memory of his feat overrode its immorality. 

“You should have been there, Biggs!” 

“You ought to take it a little easier,” his friend 
cautioned. “You may be the hottest bush pilot this 
side of Mos Eisley, Luke, but those little skyhoppers 
can be dangerous. They move awfully fast for 
tropospheric craft—faster than they need to. Keep 
playing engine jockey with one and someday, 
whammo!” He slammed one fist violently into his open 
palm. “You're going to be nothing more than a dark 
spot on the damp side of a canyon wall.” 

“Look who’s talking,” Luke retorted. “Now that 
you’ve been on a few big, automatic starships you’re 
beginning to sound like my uncle. You've gotten soft 
in the cities.” He swung spiritedly at Biggs, who 


28 STAR WARS 


blocked the movement easily, making a halfhearted 
gesture of counterattack. 

Biggs’s easygoing smugness dissolved into some- 
thing warmer. “I’ve missed you, kid.” 

Luke looked away, embarrassed, “Things haven’t 
exactly been the same since you left, either, Biggs. 
It’s been so—” Luke hunted for the right word and 
finally finished helplessly, ““—so quiet.” His gaze trav- 
eled across the sandy, deserted streets of Anchorhead. 
“Tts always been quiet, really.” 

Biggs grew silent, thinking. He glanced around. 
They were alone out here. Everyone else was back 
inside the comparative coolness of the power station. 
As he leaned close Luke sensed an unaccustomed 
solemness in his friend’s tone. 

“Luke, I didn’t come back just to say good-bye, or 
to crow over everyone because I got through the 
Academy.” Again he seemed to hesitate, unsure of 
himself. Then he blurted out rapidly, not giving him- 
self a chance to back down, “But I want somebody 
to know. I can’t tell my parents.” 

Gaping at Biggs, Luke could only gulp, “Know 
what? What are you talking about?” 

“I’m talking about the talking that’s been going on 
at the Academy—and other places, Luke. Strong talk- 
ing. I made some new friends, outsystem friends. We 
agreed about the way certain things are developing, 
and—” his voice dropped conspiratorially—“When we 
teach one of the peripheral systems, we’re going to 
jump ship and join the Alliance.” 

Luke stared back at his friend, tried to picture Biggs 
—fun-loving, happy-go-lucky, live-for-today Biggs— 
as a patriot afire with rebellious fervor. 

“You're going to join the rebellion?” he started. 
“You've got to be kidding. How?” 

“Damp down, will you?” the bigger man cautioned. 
glancing furtively back toward the power station. 
“You've got a mouth like a crater.” 

“I’m sorry,” Luke whispered rapidly. “I’m quiet— 
listen how quiet I am. You can barely hear me—” 


STAR WARS 29 


Biggs cut him off and continued. “A friend of mine 
from the Academy has a friend on Bestine who 
might enable us to make contact with an armed rebel 
unit.” 

“A friend of a— You're crazy,” Luke announced 
with conviction, certain his friend had gone mad. “You 
could wander around forever trying to find a real rebel 
outpost. Most of them are only myths. This twice 
removed friend could be an imperial agent. You’d end 
up on Kessel, or worse. If rebel outposts were so 
easy to find, the Empire would have wiped them out 
years ago.” 

“T know it’s a long shot,” Biggs admitted reluctantly. 
“Tf I don’t contact them, then”—a peculiar light 
came into Biggs’s eyes, a conglomeration of newfound 
maturity and .. . something else—“T'll do what I can, 
on my own.” 

He stared intensely at his friend. “Luke, I’m not 
going to wait for the Empire to conscript me into its 
service. In spite of what you hear over the official 
information channels, the rebellion is growing, spread- 
ing. And I want to be on the right side—the side I 
believe in.” His voice altered unpleasantly, and Luke 
wondered what he saw in his mind’s eye. 

“You should have heard some of the stories Pve 
heard, Luke, learned of some of the outrages I’ve 
learned about. The Empire may have been great 
and beautiful once, but the people in charge now—” 
He shook his head sharply. “It’s rotten, Luke, rotten.” 

“And I can’t do a damn thing,” Luke muttered 
morosely. “I’m stuck here.” He kicked futilely at the 
ever-present sand of Anchorhead. 

“I thought you were going to enter the Academy 
soon,” Biggs observed. “If that’s so, then you'll have 
your chance to get off this sandpile.” 

Luke snorted derisively. “Not likely. I had to 
withdraw my application.” He looked away, unable 
to meet his friend’s disbelieving stare. “I had to. 
There’s been a lot of unrest among the sandpeople 


30 STAR WARS 


since you left, Biggs, They’ve even raided the outskirts 
of Anchorhead.” 

Biggs shook his head, disregarding the excuse. 
“Your uncle could hold off a whole colony of raiders 
with one blaster.” 

“From the house, sure,” Luke agreed, “but Uncle 
Owen’s finally got enough vaporators installed and 
running to make the farm pay off big. But he can’t 
guard all that land by himself, and he says he needs 
me for one more season. I can’t run out on him now.” 

Biggs sighed sadly. “I feel for you, Luke. Someday 
you’re going to have to learn to separate what seems 
to be important from what really is important.” He 
gestured around them. 

“What good is all your uncle’s work if it’s taken 
over by the Empire? [ve heard that they’re starting 
to imperialize commerce in all the outlying systems. 
It won’t be long before your uncle and everyone else 
on Tatooine are just tenants slaving for the greater 
glory of the Empire.” 

“That couldn’t happen here,” Luke objected with a 
confidence he didn’t quite feel. “You’ve said it your- 
self—the Empire won’t bother with this rock.” 

“Things change, Luke. Only the threat of rebellion 
keeps many in power from doing certain unmention- 
able things. If that threat is completely removed— 
well, there are two things men have never been able 
to satisfy: their curiosity and their greed. There isn’t 
much the high Imperial bureaucrats are curious 
about.” 

Both men stood silent. A sandwhirl traversed the 
street in silent majesty, collapsing against a wall to 
send newborn baby zephyrs i in all directions. 

“I wish I was going with you,” Luke finally mur- 
mured. He glanced up. “Will you be around long?” 

“No. As a matter of fact, I’m leaving in the morn- 
ing to rendezvous with the Ecliptic.” 

“Then I guess . . . I won’t be seeing you again.” 

“Maybe someday,” Biggs declared. He brightened, 
grinning that disarming grin. “I'll keep a look out for 


STAR WARS 31 


you, hotshot. Try not to run into any canyon walls in 
the meantime.” 

“Til be at the Academy the season after,’ Luke 
insisted, more to encourage himself than Biggs. “After 
that, who knows where Til end up?” He sounded de- 
termined. “I won’t be drafted into the starfleet, that’s 
for sure. Take care of yourself. You'll . . . always 
be the best friend I’ve got.” There was no need for a 
handshake. These two had long since passed beyond 
that. 

“So long, then, Luke,” Biggs said simply. He 
turned and reentered the power station. 

Luke watched him disappear through the door, 
his own thoughts as chaotic and frenetic as one of 
Tatooine’s spontaneous dust storms. 


There were any number of extraordinary features 
unique to Tatooine’s surface. Outstanding among them 
were the mysterious mists which rose regularly from 
the ground at the points where desert sands washed 
up against unyielding cliffs and mesas. 

Fog in a steaming desert seemed as out of place as 
cactus on a glacier, but it existed nonetheless. Meteor- 
ologists and geologists argued its origin among them- 
selves, muttering hard-to-believe theories about water 
suspended in sandstone veins beneath the sand and 
incomprehensible chemical reactions which made wa- 
ter rise when the ground cooled, then fall underground 
again with the double sunrise. It was all very back- 
ward and very real. 

Neither the mist nor the alien moans of nocturnal 
desert dwellers troubled Artoo Detoo, however, as 
he made his careful way up the rocky arroyo, hunting 
for the easiest pathway to the mesa top. His squarish, 
broad footpads made clicking sounds loud in the 
evening light as sand underfoot gave way gradually to 
gravel, . 

For a moment, he paused. He seemed to detect a 
noise—like metal on rock—ahead of him, instead of 


32 STAR WARS 


tock on rock. The sound wasn’t repeated, though, and 
he quickly resumed his ambling ascent. 

Up the arroyo, too far up to be seen from below, 
a pebble trickled loose from the stone wall. The 
tiny figure which had accidentally dislodged the peb- 
ble retreated mouselike into shadow. Two glowing 
points of light showed under overlapping folds of 
brown cape a meter from the narrowing canyon wall. 

Only the reaction of the unsuspecting robot in- 
dicated the presence of the whining beam as it struck 
him. For a moment Artoo Detoo fluoresced eerily in 
the dimming light. There was a single short electronic 
squeak. Then the tripodal support unbalanced and the 
tiny automaton toppled over onto its back, the lights 
on its front blinking on and off erratically from the 
effects of the paralyzing beam. 

Three travesties of men scurried out from behind 
concealing boulders. Their motions were more in- 
dicative of rodent than humankind, and they stood 
little taller than the Artoo unit. When they saw that 
the single burst of enervating energy had immobilized 
the robot, they holstered their peculiar weapons. Nev- 
ertheless, they approached the listless machine cau- 
tiously, with the trepidation of hereditary cowards. 

Their cloaks were thickly coated with dust and 
sand. Unhealthy red-yellow pupils glowed catlike from 
the depths of their hoods as they studied their captive. 
The jawas conversed in low guttural croaks and 
scrambled analogs of human speech. If, as anthropol- 
ogists hypothesized, they had ever been human, they 
had long since degenerated past anything resembling 
the human race. 

Several more jawas appeared. Together, they suc- 
ceeded in alternately hoisting and dragging the robot 
back down the arroyo. 

At the bottom of the canyon—like some monstrous 
prehistoric beast—was a sandcrawler as enormous as 
its owners and operators were tiny. Several dozen 
meters high, the vehicle towered above the ground 
on multiple treads that were taller than a tall man. 


STAR WARS 33 


Its metal epidermis was battered and pitted from with- 
standing untold sandstorms. 

On reaching the crawler, the jawas resumed jab- 
bering among themselves. Artoo Detoo could hear 
them but failed to comprehend anything. He need 
not have been embarrassed at his failure. If they so 
wished, only jawas could understand other jawas, for 
they employed a randomly variable language that 
drove linguists mad. 

One of them removed a small disk from a belt 
pouch and sealed it to the Artoo unit’s flank. A large 
tube protruded from one side of the gargantuan 
vehicle. They rolled him over to it and then moved 
clear. There was a brief moan, the whoosh of power- 
ful vacuum, and the small robot was sucked into the 
bowels of the sandcrawler as neatly as a pea up a 
straw. This part of the job completed, the jawas en- 
gaged in another bout of jabbering, following which 
they scurried into the crawler via tubes and ladders, 
for all the world like a nest of mice returning to 
their holes. 

None too gently, the suction tube deposited Artoo 
in a small cubical. In addition to varied piles of bro- 
ken instruments and outright scrap, a dozen or so ro- 
bots of differing shapes and sizes populated the prison. 
A few were locked in electronic conversation. Others 
muddled aimlessly about. But when Artoo tumbled 
into the chamber, one voice burst out in surprise. 

“Artoo Detoo—it’s you, it’s you!” called an excited 
Threepio from the near darkness. He made his way 
over to the still immobilized repair unit and embraced 
it most unmechanically. Spotting the small disk sealed 
onto Artoo’s side, Threepio turned his gaze thought- 
fully down to his own chest, where a similar device had 
likewise been attached. 

Massive gears, poorly lubricated, started to move. 
With a groaning and grinding, the monster sand- 
crawler turned and lumbered with relentless patience 
into the desert night. 


CI iil 


THE burnished conference table was as soulless and 
unyielding as the mood of the eight Imperial Senators 
and officers ranged around it. Imperial troopers stood 
guard at the entrance to the chamber, which was 
sparse and coldly lit from lights in the table and walls. 
One of the youngest of the eight was declaiming. He 
exhibited the attitude of one who had climbed far and 
fast by methods best not examined too closely. Gen- 
eral Tagge did possess a certain twisted genius, but it 
was only partly that ability which had lifted him to 
his present exalted position. Other noisome talents 
had proven equally efficacious. 

Though his uniform was as neatly molded and his 
body as clean as that of anyone else in the room, 
none of the remaining seven cared to touch him. A 
certain sliminess clung cloyingly to him, a sensation 
inferred rather than tactile. Despite this, many re- 
spected him. Or feared him. 

“T tell you, he’s gone too far this time,” the General 
was insisting vehemently. “This Sith Lord inflicted on 
us at the urging of the Emperor will be our undoing. 
Until the battle station is fully operational, we remain 
vulnerable. 

“Some of you still don’t seem to realize how well 
equipped and organized the rebel Alliance is. 
Their vessels are excellent, their pilots better. And 
they are propelled by something more powerful than 
mere engines: this perverse, reactionary fanaticism of 
theirs. They’re more dangerous than most of you real- 
ize.” 

An older officer, with facial scars so deeply en- 
graved that even the best cosmetic surgery could not 
fully repair them, shifted nervously in his chair. 


34 


STAR WARS 35 


“Dangerous to your starfleet, General Tagge, but not 
to this battle station.” Wizened eyes hopped from man 
to man, traveling around the table. “I happen to think 
Lord Vader knows what he’s doing. The rebellion will 
continue only as long as those cowards have a sanc- 
tuary, a place where their pilots can relax and their 
machines can be repaired.” 

Tagge objected. “I beg to differ with you, Romodi. 
T think the construction of this station has more to do 
with Governor Tarkin’s bid for personal power and 
recognition than with any justifiable military strategy. 
Within the Senate the rebels will continue to increase 
their support as long—” 

The sound of the single doorway sliding aside and 
the guards snapping to attention cut him off. His 
head turned as did everyone else’s. 

Two individuals as different in appearance as they 
were united in objectives had entered the chamber. 
The nearest to Tagge was a thin, hatchet-faced man 
with hair and form borrowed from an old broom and 
the expression of a quiescent piranha. The Grand 
Moff Tarkin, Governor of numerous outlying Im- 
perial territories, was dwarfed by the broad, armored 
bulk of Lord Darth Vader. 

Tagge, unintimidated but subdued, slowly resumed 
his seat as Tarkin assumed his place at the end of 
the conference table. Vader stood next to him, a dom- 
inating presence behind the Governor’s chair. For a 
minute Tarkin stared directly at Tagge, then glanced 
away as if he had seen nothing. Tagge fumed but re- 
mained silent. 

As Tarkin’s gaze roved around the table a razor- 
thin smile of satisfaction remained frozen in his fea- 
tures. “The Imperial Senate will no longer be of any 
concern to us, gentlemen. I have just received word 
that the Emperor has permanently dissolved that 
misguided body.” 

A ripple of astonishment ran through the assembly. 
“The last remnants,” Tarkin continued, “of the Old 
Republic have finally been swept away.” 


36 STAR WARS 


“This is impossible,” Tagge interjected. “How will 
the Emperor maintain control of the Imperial bureau- 
cracy?” 

“Senatorial representation has not been formally 
abolished, you must understand,” Tarkin explained. 
“It has merely been superseded for the—” he smiled 
a bit more—‘duration of the emergency. Regional 
Governors will now have direct control and a free 
hand in administering their territories. This means that 
the Imperial presence can at last be brought to bear 
properly on the vacillating worlds of the Empire. 
From now on, fear will keep potentially traitorous lo- 
cal governments in line. Fear of the Imperial fleet— 
and fear of this battle station.” 

“And what of the existing rebellion?” Tagge 
wanted to know. 

“If the rebels somehow managed to gain access to 
a complete technical schema of this battle station, 
it is remotely possible that they might be able.to locate 
a weakness susceptible to minor exploitation.” Tar- 
kin’s smile shifted to a smirk. “Of course, we all know 
how well guarded, how carefully protected, such vital 
data is. It could not possibly fall into rebel hands.” 

“The technical data to which you are obliquely re- 
ferring,” rumbled Darth Vader angrily, “will soon be 
back in our hands. If—” 

Tarkin shook the Dark Lord off, something no one 
else at the table would have dared to do. “It is im- 
material. Any attack made against this station by the 
rebels would be a suicidal gesture, suicidal and use- 
less—regardless of any information they managed to 
obtain. After many long years of secretive construc- 
tion,” he declared with evident pleasure, “this station 
has become the decisive force in this part of the uni- 
verse. Events in this region of the galaxy will no longer 
be determined bv fate, by decree, or by any other 
agency. They will be decided by this station!” 

A huge metal-clad hand gestured slightly, and one 
of the filled cups on the table drifted responsively 
into it. With a slightly admonishing tone the Dark 


STAR WARS 37 


Lord continued. “Don’t become too proud of this tech- 
nological terror you’ve spawned, Tarkin. The ability 
to destroy a city, a world, a whole system is still insig- 
nificant when set against the force.” 

“‘The Force,’” Tagge sneered. “Don’t try to 
frighten us with your sorcerer’s ways, Lord Vader. 
Your sad devotion to that ancient mythology has not 
helped you to conjure up those stolen tapes, or 
gifted you with clairvoyance sufficient to locate the 
rebels’ hidden fortress. Why, it’s enough to make one 
laugh fit to—” 

Tagge’s eyes abruptly bulged and his hands went 
to his throat as he began to turn a disconcerting shade 
of blue. 

“T find,” Vader ventured mildly, “this lack of faith 
disturbing.” 

“Enough of this,’ Tarkin snapped, distressed. 
“Vader, release him. This bickering among ourselves 
is pointless.” 

Vader shrugged as if it were of no consequence. 
Tagge slumped in his seat, rubbing his throat, his wary 
gaze never leaving the dark giant. 

“Lord Vader will provide us with the location of 
the rebel fortress by the time this station is certified 
operational,” Tarkin declared. “That known, we will 
proceed to it and destroy it utterly, crushing this pa- 
thetic rebellion in one swift stroke.” 

“As the Emperor wills it,” Vader added, not with- 
out sarcasm, “so shall it be.” 

Tf any of the powerful men seated around the ta- 
ble found this disrespectful tone objectionable, a 
glance at Tagge was sufficient to dissuade them from 
mentioning it. 


The dim prison reeked of rancid oil and stale Iu- 
bricants, a veritable metallic charnel house. Threepio 
endured the discomfiting atmosphere as best he could. 
It was a constant battle to avoid being thrown by every 
unexpected bounce into the walls or into a fellow ma- 
chine. 


38 STAR WARS 


To conserve power—and also to avoid the steady 
stream of complaints from his taller companion— 
Artoo Detoo had shut down all exterior functions. He 
lay inert among a pile of secondary parts, sublimely 
unconcemed at the moment as to their fate. 

“Will this never end?” Threepio was moaning as 
another violent jolt roughly jostled the inhabitants of 
the prison. He had already formulated and discarded 
half a hundred horrible ends. He was certain only 
that their eventual disposition was sure to be worse 
than anything he could imagine. 

Then, quite without warning, something more un- 
settling than even the most battering bump took 
place. The sandcrawler’s whine died, and the vehicle 
came to a halt—almost as if in response to Threepio’s 
query. A nervous buzz rose from those mechanicals 
who still retained a semblance of sentience as they 
speculated on their present location and probable 
fate. 

At least Threepio. was no longer ignorant of his 
captors or of their likely motives. Local captives had 
explained the nature of the quasi-human mechanic 
migrants, the jawas. Traveling in their enormous mo- 
bile fortress-homes, they scoured the most inhospi- 
table regions of Tatooine in search of valuable 
minerals—and salvageable machinery. They had 
never been seen outside of their protective cloaks and 
sandmasks, so no one knew exactly what they looked 
like. But they were reputed to be extraordinarily ugly. 
Threepio did not have to be convinced. 

Leaning over his still-motionless companion, he be- 
gan a steady shaking of the barrellike torso. Epidermal 
sensors were activated on the Artoo unit, and the 
lights on the front side of the little robot began a 
sequential awakening. 

“Wake up, wake up,” Threepio urged. “We've 
stopped someplace.” Like several of the other, more 
imaginative robots, his eyes were warily scanning 
metal walls, expecting a hidden panel to slide aside 


STAR WARS 39 


at any moment and a giant mechanical arm to come 
probing and fumbling for him. 

“No doubt about it, we’re doomed,” he recited 
moumfully as Artoo righted himself, returning to full 
activation. “Do you think they'll melt us down?” 
He became silent for several] minutes, then added, 
“It’s this waiting that gets to me.” 

Abruptly the far wall of the chamber slid aside and 
the blinding white glare of a Tatooine morning 
tushed in on them. Threepio’s sensitive photorecep- 
tors were hard pressed to adjust in time to prevent 
serious damage. 

Several of the repulsive-looking jawas scrambled 
agilely into the chamber, still dressed in the same 
swathings and filth Threepio had observed on them 
before. Using hand weapons of an unknown design, 
they prodded at the machines. Certain of them, 
Threepio noted with a mental swallow, did not stir. 

Ignoring the immobile ones, the jawas herded those 
still capable of movement outside, Artoo and Threepio 
among them. Both robots found themselves part of an 
uneven mechanical line. 

Shielding his eyes against the glare, Threepio saw 
that five of them were arranged alongside the huge 
sandcrawler. Thoughts of escape did not enter his 
mind. Such a concept was utterly alien to a mechan- 
ical. The more intelligent a robot was, the more ab- 
horrent and unthinkable the concept. Besides, had 
he tried to escape, built-in sensors would have detected 
the critical logic malfunction and melted every circuit 
in his brain. 

Instead, he studied the small domes and vaporators 
that indicated the presence of a larger underground 
human homestead. Though he was unfamiliar with this 
type of construction, all signs pointed to a modest, 
if isolated, habitation. Thoughts of being dismembered 
for parts or slaving in some high-temperature mine 
slowly faded. His spirits rose correspondingly. 

“Maybe this won’t be so bad after all,” he mur- 
mured hopefully. “If we can convince these bipedal 


40 STAR WARS 


vermin to unload us here, we may enter into sensible 
human service again instead of being melted into 
slag.” 

Artoo’s sole reply was a noncommittal chirp. Both 
machines became silent as the jawas commenced 
scurrying around them, striving to straighten one poor 
machine with a badly bent spine, to disguise a dent 
or scrape with liquid and dust. 

As two of them bustled about, working on his sand- 
coated skin, Threepio fought to stifle an expression 
of disgust. One of his many human-analog functions 
was the ability to react naturally to offensive odors. 
Apparently hygiene was unknown among the jawas. 
But he was certain no good would come of pointing 
this out to them. 

Small insects drifted in clouds about the faces of 
the jawas, who ignored them. Apparently the tiny 
individualized plagues were regarded as just a dif- 
ferent sort of appendage, like an extra arm or leg. 

So intent was Threepio on his observation that he 
failed to notice the two figures moving toward them 
from the region of the largest dome. Artoo had to 
nudge him slightly before he looked up. 

The first man wore an air of grim, semiperpetual 
exhaustion, sandblasted into his face by too many 
years of arguing with a hostile environment. His gray- 
ing hair was frozen in tangled twists like gypsum 
helicites. Dust frosted his face, clothes, hands, and 
thoughts. But the body, if not the spirit, was still pow- 
erful. 

Proportionately dwarfed by his uncle’s wrestlerlike 
body, Luke strode slump-shouldered in his shadow, 
his present attitude one of dejection rather than ex- 
haustion. He had a great deal on his mind, and it 
had very little to do with farming. Mostly it involved 
the rest of his life, and the commitment made by his 
best friend who had recently departed beyond the blue 
sky above to enter a harsher, yet more rewarding ca~- 
reer. 

The bigger man stopped before the assembly and 


STAR WARS 41 


entered into a peculiar squeaky dialogue with the 
jawa in charge. When they wished it, the jawas could 
be understood. 

Luke stood nearby, listening indifferently. Then 
he shuffled along behind his uncle as the latter began 
inspecting the five machines, pausing only to mutter 
an occasional word or two to his nephew. It was 
hard to pay attention, even though he knew he ought 
to be learning. 

“Luke—oh, Luke!” a voice called. 

Turning away from the conversation, which con- 
sisted of the lead jawa extolling the unmatched vir- 
tues of all five machines and his uncle countering 
with derision, Luke walked over to the near edge of 
the subterranean courtyard and peered down. 

A stout woman with the expression of a misplaced 
sparrow was busy working among decorative plants. 
She looked up at him. “Be sure and tell Owen that if 
he buys a translator to make sure it speaks Bocce, 
Luke.” 

Turning, Luke looked back over his shoulder and 
studied the motley collection of tired machines. “It 
looks like we don’t have much of a choice,” he called 
back down to her, “but [ll remind him anyway.” 

She nodded up at him and he tumed to rejoin his 
uncle. 

Apparently Owen Lars had already come to a de- 
cision, having settled on a small semi-agricultural 
robot. This one was similar in shape to Artoo Detoo, 
save that its multiple subsidary arms were tipped with 
different functions. At an order it had stepped out 
of the line and was wobbling along behind Owen 
and the temporarily subdued jawa. 

_ Proceeding to the end of the line, the farmer’s eyes 
narrowed as he concentrated on the sand-scoured but 
still flashy bronze finish of the tall, humanoid 
Threepio. 

“I presume you function,” he grumbled at the 
robot. “Do you know customs and protocol?” 

‘Do I know protocol?” Threepio echoed as the 


42 STAR WARS 


farmer looked him up and down. Threepio was de- 
termined to embarrass the jawa when it came to sell- 
ing bis abilities. “Do I know protocol! Why, it’s my 
primary function. I am also well—” 

“Don’t need a protocol ’droid,” the farmer snapped 
dryly. 

“IT don’t blame you, sit,” Threepio rapidly agreed. 
“IT couldn’t be more in agreement. What could be 
more of a wasteful luxury in a climate like this? For 
someone of your interests, sir, a protocol *droid would 
be a useless waste of money. No, sir—versatility is 
my middle name. See Vee Threepio—Vee for ver- 
satility—at your service. I’ve been programmed for 
over thirty secondary functions that require only . . .” 

“IT need,” the farmer broke in, demonstrating im- 
perious disregard for Threepio’s as yet unenumerated 
secondary functions, “a ’droid that knows something 
about the binary language of independently program- 
mable moisture vaporators.” 

“Vaporators! We are both in luck,” Threepio 
countered. “My first post-primary assignment was in 
programming binary load lifters. Very similar in 
construction and memory-function to your vapora- 
tors. You could almost say...” 

Luke tapped his uncle on the shoulder and 
whispered somethiing in his ear. His uncle nodded, 
then looked back at the attentive Threepio again. 

“Do you speak Bocce?” 

“Of course, sir,” Threepio replied, confident for a 
change with a wholly honest answer. “It’s like a sec- 
ond language to me. “I’m as fluent in Bocce as—” 

The farmer appeared determined never to allow 
him to conclude a sentence. “Shut up.” Owen Lars 
looked down at the jawa. “T’ll take this one, too.” 

“Shutting up, sir,” responded Threepio quickly, 
hard put to conceal his glee at being selected. 

“Take them down to the garage, Luke,” his uncle 
instructed him. “I want you to have both of them 
cleaned up by suppertime.” 

Luke looked askance at his uncle. “But I was go- 


STAR WARS 43 


ing into Tosche station to pick up some new power 
converters and...” 

“Don’t lie to me, Luke,” his uncle warned him 
sternly. “I don’t mind you wasting time with your idle 
friends, but only after you’ve finished your chores. 
Now hop to it—and before supper, mind.” 

Downcast, Luke directed his words irritably to 
Threepio and the small agricultural robot. He knew 
better than to argue with his uncle. 

“Follow me, you two.” They started for the garage 
as Owen entered into price negotiations with the 
jawa. 

Other jawas were leading the three remaining ma- 
chines back into the sandcrawler when something let 
out an almost pathetic beep. Luke turned to see a 
Artoo unit breaking formation and starting toward 
him. It was immediately restrained by a jawa wield- 
ing a control device that activated the disk sealed on 
the machine’s front plate. , 

Luke studied the rebellious droid curiously. Three- 
pio started to say something, considered the circum- 
stances and thought better of it. Instead, he remained 
silent, staring straight ahead. 

A minute later, something pinged sharply nearby. 
Glancing down, Luke saw that a head plate had 
popped off the top of the agricultural ’droid. A grind- 
ing noise was coming from within. A second later the 
machine was throwing internal components all over 
the sandy ground. 

Leaning close, Luke peered inside the expectorat- 
ing mechanical. He called out, “Uncle Owen! The 
servomotor-central on this cultivator unit is shot. 
Look .. .” He reached in, tried to adjust the device, 
and pulled away hurriedly when it began a wild 
sparking. The odor of crisped insulation and cor- 
roded circuitry filled the clear desert air with a 
pungency redolent of mechanized death. 

Owen Lars glared down at the nervous jawa. 
“What kind of junk are you trying to push on us?” 

The jawa responded loudly, indignantly, while si- 


44 STAR WARS 


multaneously taking a couple of precautionary steps 
away from the big human. He was distressed that the 
man was between him and the soothing safety of the 
sandcrawler. 

Meanwhile, Artoo Detoo had scuttled out of the 
group of machines being led back toward the mobile 
fortress. Doing so turned out to be simple enough, 
since all the jawas had their attention focused on the 
argument between their leader and Luke’s uncle. 

Lacking sufficient armature for wild gesticulation, 
the Artoo unit suddenly let out a high whistle, then 
broke it off when it was apparent he had gained 
Threepio’s attention. 

Tapping Luke gently on the shoulder, the tall. 
*droid whispered conspiratorially into his ear. “If I 
might say so, young sir, that Artoo unit is a real 
bargain. In top condition, I don’t believe these crea- 
tures have any idea what good shape he’s really in. 
Don’t let all the sand and dust deceive you.” 

Luke was in the habit of making instant decisions 
—for good or bad—anyway. “Uncle Owen!” he 
called. 

Breaking off the argument without taking his at- 
tention from the jawa, his uncle glanced quickly at 
him. Luke gestured toward Artoo Detoo. “We don’t 
want any trouble. What about swapping this—” he 
indicated the burned-out agricultural ’droid—‘for that 
one?” 

The older man studied the Artoo unit profession- 
ally, then considered the jawas. Though inherently 
cowards, the tiny desert scavengers could be pushed 
too far. The sandcrawler could flatten the homestead 
—at the risk of inciting the human community to 
lethal vengeance. 

Faced with a no-win situation for either side if he 
pressed too hard, Owen resumed the argument 
for show’s sake before gruffly assenting. The head 
jawa consented reluctantly to the trade, and both 
sides breathed a mental sigh of relief that hostilities 


STAR WARS 45 


had been avoided. While the jawa bowed and whined 
with impatient greed, Owen paid him off. 

Meanwhile, Luke had led the two robots toward an 
opening in the dry ground. A few seconds later they 
were striding down a ramp kept clear of drifting sand 
by electrostatic repellers. 

“Don’t you ever forget this,’ Threepio muttered to 
Artoo, leaning over the smaller machine. “Why I 
stick my neck out for you, when all you ever bring 
me is trouble, is beyond my capacity to comprehend.” 

The passage widened into the garage proper, which 
was cluttered with tools and sections of farming ma- 
chinery. Many looked heavily used, some to the point 
of collapse. But the lights were comforting to both 
*droids, and there was a hominess to the chamber 
which hinted at a tranquillity not experienced by ei- 
ther machine for a long time. Near the center of the 
garage was a large tub, and the aroma drifting 
from it made Threepio’s principal olfactory sensors 
twitch. 

Luke grinned, noting. the robot’s reaction. “Yes, it’s 
a lubrication bath.” He eyed the tall bronze robot ap- 
praisingly. “And from the looks of it, you could use 
about a week’s submergence. But we can’t afford that 
so you'll have to settle for an afternoon.” Then Luke 
turned his attention to Artoo Detoo, walking up to him 
and flipping open a panel that shielded numerous 
gauges, 

“As for you,” he continued, with a whistle of sur- 
prise, “I don’t know how you’ve kept running. Not 
surprising, knowing the jawas’ reluctance to part 
with any erg-fraction they don’t have to. It’s recharge 
time for you.” He gestured toward a large power unit. 

Artoo Detoo followed Luke’s gesture, then beeped 
once and waddled over to the boxy construction. 
Finding the proper cord, he automatically flipped 
open a panel and plugged the triple prongs into his 
face. ; 

Threepio had walked over to the large cistern, 
which was filled almost full with aromatic cleansing 


46 STAR WARS 


oil. With a remarkably humanlike sigh he lowered 
himself slowly into the tank. 

“You two behave yourselves,” Luke cautioned them 
as he moved to a small two-man skyhopper. A power- 
ful little suborbital spacecraft, it rested in the hangar 
section of the garage-workshop. “I’ve got work of my 
own to do.” 

Unfortunately, Luke’s energies were still focused 
on his farewell encounter with Biggs, so that hours 
later he had finished few of his chores. Thinking about 
his friend’s departure, Luke was running a caressing 
hand over the damaged port fin of the *hopper—the 
fin he had damaged while running down an imaginary 
Tie fighter in the wrenching twists and turns of a nar- 
Tow canyon. That was when the projecting ledge had 
clipped him as effectively as an energy beam. 

Abruptly something came to a boil within him. 
With atypical violence he threw a power wrench 
across a worktable nearby. “It just isn’t fair!” he 
declared to no one in particular. His voice dropped 
disconsolately. “Biggs is right. I'll never get out of 
here. He’s planning rebellion against the Empire, 
and I’m trapped on a blight of a farm.” 

“I beg your pardon, sir.” 

Luke spun, startled, but it was only the tall "droid, 
Threepio. The contrast in the robot was striking com- 
pared with Luke’s initial sight of him. Bronze-colored 
alloy gleamed in the overhead lights of the garage, 
cleaned of pits and dust by the powerful oils. 

“Is there anything I might do to help?” the robot 
asked solicitously. 

Luke studied the machine, and as he did so some 
of his anger drained away. There was no point in 
yelling cryptically at a robot. 

“I doubt it,” he replied, “unless you can alter time 
and speed up the harvest. Or else teleport me off 
this sandpile under uncle Owen’s nose.” 

Sarcasm was difficult for even an extremely sophis- 
ticated robot to detect, so Threepio considered the 
question objectively before finally replying, “T don’t 


STAR WARS 47 


think so, sir. I’m only a third-degree ’droid and not 
very knowledgeable about such things as transatomic 
physics.” Suddenly, the events of the past couple of 
days seemed to catch up with him all at once. “As a 
matter of fact, young sir,” Threepio went on while 
looking around him with fresh vision, “I’m not even 
sure which planet I’m on.” 

Luke chuckled sardonically and assumed a mocking 
pose. “If there’s a bright center to this universe, you’re 
on the world farthest from it.”’ 

“Yes, Luke sir.” 

The youth shook his head irritably. “Never mind 
the ‘sir’-—it’s just Luke. And this world is called 
Tatooine.” 

Threepio nodded slightly. “Thank you, Luke s— 
Luke. I am See Threepio, human-droid relations 
specialist.” He jerked a casual metal thumb back 
toward the recharge unit. “That is my companion, 
Artoo Detoo.” 

“Pleased to meet you, Threepio,” Luke said easily. 
“You too, Artoo.” Walking across the garage, he 
checked a gauge on the smaller machine’s front panel, 
then gave a grunt of satisfaction. As he began un- 
plugging the charge cord he saw something which 
made him frown and lean close. 

“Something wrong, Luke?” Threepio inquired. 

Luke went to a nearby tool wall and selected a 
small many-armed device. “I don’t know yet, Three- 
pio.” 

Returning to the recharger, Luke bent over Artoo 
and began scraping at several bumps in the small 
*droid’s top with a chromed pick. Occasionally he 
jerked back sharply as bits of corrosion were flicked 
into the air by the tiny tool. 

Threepio watched, interested, as Luke worked. 
“There’s a lot of strange carbon scoring here of a 
type Pm not familiar with. Looks like you’ve both 
seen a lot of action out of the ordinary.” 

“Indeed, sir,” Threepio admitted, forgetting to drop 
the honorific. This time Luke was too absorbed else- 


48 STAR WARS 


where to correct him. “Sometimes I’m amazed we’re 
in as good shape as we are.” He added as an 
afterthought, while still shying away from the thrust 
of Luke’s question, “What with the rebellion and all.” 

Despite his caution, it seemed to Threepio that he 
must have given something away, for an almost jawa- 
like blaze appeared in Luke’s eyes. “You know about 
the rebellion against the Empire?” he demanded. 

“In a way,” Threepio confessed reluctantly. “The 
rebellion was responsible for our coming into your 
service. We are refugees, you see.” He did not add 
from where. 

Not that Luke appeared to care. “Refugees!” 
Then IJ did see a space battle!” He rambled on rap- 
idly, excited. “Tell me where you’ve been—in how 
many encounters. How is the rebellion going? Does 
the Empire take it seriously? Have you seen many 
ships destroyed?” . 

“A bit slower, please, sir,” Threepio pleaded. “You 
misinterpret our status. We were innocent bystanders. 
Our involvement with the rebellion was of the most 
marginal nature. 

“As to battles, we were in several, I think. It is 
difficult to tell when one is not directly in contact 
with the actual battle machinery.” He shrugged 
neatly. “Beyond that, there is not much to say. Re- 
member, sir, I am little more than a cosmeticized 
interpreter and not very good at telling stories or relat- 
ing histories, and even less proficient at embellishing 
them. J am a very litera] machine.” 

Luke turned away, disappointed, and returned to 
his cleaning of Artoo Detoo. Additional scraping 
turned up something puzzling enough to demand 
his full attention. A small metal fragment was tightly 
lodged between two bar conduits that would normally 
form a linkage. Setting down the delicate pick, Luke 
switched to a larger instrument. 

“Well, my little friend,” he murmured, “you’ve got 
something jammed in here real good.” As he pushed 


STAR WARS 49 


and pried Luke directed half his attention to Three- 
pio. “Were you on a star freighter or was it—” 

Metal gave way with a powerful crack, and the re- 
coil sent Luke tumbling head over heels. Getting to 
his feet, he started to curse—then froze, motionless. 

The front of the Artoo unit had begun to glow, 
exuding a three-dimensional image less than one-third 
of a meter square but precisely defined. The portrait 
formed within the box was so exquisite that in a cou- 
ple of minutes Luke discovered he was out of breath 
——because he had forgotten to breathe. 

Despite a superficial sharpness, the image flickered 
and jiggled unsteadily, as if the recording had been 
made and installed with haste. Luke stared at the 
foreign colors being projected into the prosaic at- 
mosphere of the garage and started to form a question. 
But it was never finished. The lips on the figure 
moved, and the girl spoke—or rather, seemed to 
speak, Luke knew the aural accompaniment was gen- 
erated somewhere within Artoo Detoo’s squat torso. 

“Obi-wan Kenobi,” the voice implored huskily, 
“help me! You’re my only remaining hope.” A burst 
of static dissolved the face momentarily. Then it coa- 
lesced again, and once more the voice repeated, “Obi- 
wan Kenobi, you’re my only remaining hope.” 

With a raspy hum the hologram continued. Luke 
sat perfectly still for a long moment, considering what 
he was seeing, then he blinked and directed his words 
to the Artoo unit. 

“What’s this all about, Artoo Detoo?” 

The stubby ‘droid shifted slightly, the cubish por- 
trait shifting with him, and beeped what sounded 
vaguely like a sheepish reply. 

Threepio appeared as mystified as Luke. “What is 
that?” he inquired sharply, gesturing at the speaking 
portrait and then at Luke. “You were asked a ques- 
tion. What and who is that, and how are you origi- 
nating it—and why?” 

The Artoo unit generated a beep of surprise, for 
all the world as if just noticing the hologram. This 


50 STAR WARS 


was followed by a whistling stream of information. 

Threepio digested the data, tried to frown, couldn’t, 
and strove to convey his own confusion via the tone 
of his voice, “He insists it’s nothing, sir, Merely a 
mailfunction—old data. A tape that should have been 
erased but was missed. He insists we pay it no mind.” 

That was like telling Luke to ignore a cache of 
Durindfires he might stumble over in the desert. 
“Who is she?” he demanded, staring enraptured at 
the hologram. “She’s beautiful.” 

“IT really don’t know who she is,” Threepio con- 
fessed honestly. “I think she might have been a pas- 
senger on our last voyage. From what I recall, she 
was a personage of some importance. This might 
have something to do with the fact that our Captain 
was attaché to—” 

Luke cut him off, savoring the way sensuous lips 
formed and reformed the sentence fragment. “Is there 
any more to this recording? It sounds like it’s incom- 
plete.” Getting to his feet, Luke reached out for the 
Artoo unit. 

The robot moved backward and produced whistles 
of such frantic concern that Luke hesitated and held 
off reaching for the internal controls. 

Threepio was shocked. “Behave yourself, Artoo,” 
he finally chastised his companion. “You're going to 
get us into trouble.” He had visions of the both of 
them being packed up as uncooperative and shipped 
back to the jawas, which was enough to make him imi- 
tate a shudder. 

“Tt’s all right—he’s our master now.” Threepio in- 
dicated Luke. “You can trust him. I feel that he has 
our best interests in mind.” 

Detoo appeared to hesitate, uncertain. Then he 
whistled and beeped a long complexity at his friend. 

“Well?” Luke prompted impatiently. 

Threepio paused before replying. ‘““He says that he 
is the property of one Obi-wan Kenobi, a resident 
of this world. Of this very region, in fact. The sentence 


STAR WARS 51 


fragment we are hearing is part of a private message 
intended for this person.” 

Threepio shook his head slowly. “Quite frankly, sir, 
I don’t know what he’s talking about, Our last master 
was Captain Colton. I never heard Artoo mention a 
prior master. [’ve certainly never heard of an Obi- 
wan Kenobi. But with all we’ve been through,” he con- 
cluded apologetically, “I’m afraid his logic circuits 
have gotten a bit scrambled. He’s become decidedly 
eccentric at times.” And while Luke considered this 
tum of events, Threepio took the opportunity to throw 
Artoo a furious look of warning. 

“Obi-wan Kenbi,” Luke recited thoughifully, His 
expression suddenly brightened. “Say . . . I wonder 
if he could be referring to old Ben Kenobi.” 

“Begging your pardon,” Threepio gulped, aston- 
ished beyond measure, “but you actually know of such 
a person?” 

“Not exactly,” he admitted in a more subdued 
voice. “I don’t know anyone named Obi-wan—but 
old Ben lives somewhere out on the fringe of the 
Western Dune Sea. He’s kind of a local character— 
a hermit. Uncle Owen and a few of the other farm- 
ers say he’s a sorcerer. 

“He comes around once in a while to trade things. 
I hardly ever talk to him, though. My uncle usually 
runs him off.” He paused and glanced across at the 
small robot again. “But I never heard that old Ben 
owned a "droid of any kind. At least, none that I ever 
heard tell of.” : 

Luke’s gaze was drawn irresistibly back to the 
hologram. “I wonder who she is. She must be im- 
portant—especially if what you told me just now is 
true, Threepio. She sounds and looks as if she’s 
in some kind of trouble. Maybe the message is im- 
portant. We ought to hear the rest of it.” 

He reached again for the Artoo’s internal controls, 
and the robot scurried backward again, squeaking a 
blue streak. 

“He says there’s a restraining separator bolt that’s 


52 STAR WARS 


circuiting out his self-motivation components.” Three- 
pio translated. “He suggests that if you move the bolt 
he might be able to repeat the entire message,” 
Threepio finished uncertainly. When Luke continued 
to stare at the portrait, Threepio added, more loudly 
“Sirf” - 

Luke shook himself. “What . . . ? Oh, yes.” He 
considered the request. Then he moved and peered 
into the open panel. This time Artoo didn’t retreat. 

“I see it, I think. Well, I guess you’re too small 
to run away from me if I take this off. I wonder what 
someone would be sending a message to old Ben for.” 

Selecting the proper tool, Luke reached down into 
the exposed circuitry and popped the restraining bolt 
free. The first noticeable result of this action was that 
the portrait disappeared. 

Luke stood back. “There, now.” There was an un- 
comfortable pause during which the hologram showed 
no sign of returning. “Where did she go?” Luke finally 
prompted. “Make her come back. Play the entire mes- 
sage, Artoo Detoo.” 

An innocent-sounding beep came from the robot. 
Threepio appeared embarrassed and nervous as he 
translated. “He said, “What message?’ ” 

Threepio’s attention turned half angrily to his com- 
panion. “What message? You know what message! 
The one you just played a fragment of for us. The 
one you’re hauling around inside your recalcitrant, 
rust-ridden innards, you stubborn hunk of junk!” 

Artoo sat and hummed softly to himself. 

“T’m sorry, sir,” Threepio said slowly, “but he shows 
signs of having developed an alarming flutter in his 
obedience-rational module. Perhaps if we—” 

A voice from down a corridor interrupted him. 
“Tuke ... oh, Luke—come to dinner!” 

Luke hesitated, then rose and turned away from the 
puzzling little *droid. “Okay,” he called, “I’m coming, 
Aunt Beru!” He lowered his voice as he spoke to 
Threepio. “See what you can do with him. Pil be 


STAR WARS 53 


back soon.” Tossing the just-removed restraining bolt 
on the workbench, he hurried from the chamber. 

As soon as the human was gone, Threepio whirled 
on his shorter companion. “You'd better consider 
playing that whole recording for him,” he growled, 
with a suggestive nod toward a workbench laden with 
dismembered machine parts. “Otherwise he’s liable to 
take up that cleaning pick again and go digging for it. 
He might not be too careful what he cuts through 
if he believes you’re deliberately withholding something 
from him.” 

A plaintive beep came from Artoo. 

“No,” Threepio responded, “I don’t think he likes 
you at all.” 

A second beep failed to alter the stern tone in the 
taller robot’s voice. “No, I don’t like you, either.” 


LI IV 


LUKE’S Aunt Beru was filling a pitcher with blue 
liquid from ‘a refrigerated container. Behind her, in 
the dining area, a steady buzz of conversation reached 
to the kitchen. 

She sighed sadly. The mealtime discussions between 
her husband and Luke had grown steadily more ac- 
rimonious as the boy’s restlessness pulled him in 
directions other than farming. Directions for which 
Owen, a stolid man of the soil if there ever was one, 
had absolutely no sympathy. 

Returning the bulk container to the refrigerator 
unit, she placed the pitcher on a tray and hurried back 
to the dining room. Bern was not a brilliant woman, 
but she possessed an instinctive understanding of her 
important position in this household. She functioned 
like the damping rods in a nuclear reactor. As long 
as she was present, Owen and Luke would continue 


54 STAR WARS 


to generate a lot of heat, but if she was out of their 
presence for too long—boom! 

Condenser units built into the bottom of each 
plate kept the food on the dining-room table hot as 
she hurried in. Immediately, both men lowered their 
voices to something civilized and shifted the subject. 
Beru pretended not to notice the change. 

“I think that Artoo unit might have been stolen, 
Uncle Owen,” Luke was saying, as if that had been 
the topic of conversation all along. 

His uncle helped himself to the milk pitcher, mum- 
bling his reply around a mouthful of food. “The jawas 
have a tendency to pick up anything that’s not tied 
down, Luke, but remember, they’re basically afraid of 
their own shadows. To resort to outright theft, they'd 
have to have considered the consequences of being 
pursued and punished. Theoretically, their minds 
shouldn’t be capable of that. What makes you think 
the ‘droid is stolen?” 

“For one thing, it’s in awfully good shape for a dis- 
card. It generated a hologram recording while I was 
cleaning—” Luke tried to conceal his horror at the 
slip. He added hastily, “But that’s not important. The 
reason I think it might be stolen is because it claims 
to be the property of someone it calls Obi-wan 
Kenobi.” 

Maybe something in the food, or perhaps the milk, 
caused Luke’s uncle to gag. Then again, it might have 
been an expression of disgust, which was Owen’s way 
of indicating his opinion of that peculiar personage. 
In any case, he continued eating without looking up 
at his nephew. 

Luke pretended the display of graphic dislike had 
never happened. “I thought,’ he continued deter- 
minedly, “it might have meant old Ben. The first name 
is different, but the last is identical.” 

When his uncle steadfastly maintained his silence, 
Luke prompted him directly. “Do you know who he’s 
talking about, Uncle Owen?” 

Surprisingly, his uncle looked uncomfortable instead 


STAR WARS 55 


of angry. “It’s nothing,” he mumbled, still not meet- 
ing Luke’s gaze. “A name from another time.” He 
squirmed nervously in his seat. “A name that can 
only mean trouble.” 

Luke refused to heed the implied warning and 
pressed on. “Is it someone related to old Ben, then? 
I didn’t know he had any relatives.” 

“You stay away from that old wizard, you hear 
me!” his uncle exploded, awkwardly substituting threat 
for reason. 

“Owen...” Aunt Beru started to interject gently, 
but the big farmer cut her off sternly. 

“Now, this is important, Beru.” He turned his at- 
tention back to his nephew. “I’ve told you about 
Kenobi before. He’s a crazy old man; he’s dangerous 
and full of mischief, and he’s best left well alone.” 

Beru’s pleading gaze caused him to quiet some- 
what. “That ’droid has nothing to do with him. 
Couldn’t have,” he grumbled half to himself. “Re- 
cording—huh! Well, tomorrow I want you to take the 
unit into Anchorhead and have its memory flushed.” 

Snorting, Owen bent to his half-eaten meal with 
determination. “That will be the end of this foolish- 
ness. I don’t care where that machine thinks it came 
from. I paid hard credit for it, and it belongs to us 
now.” 

“But suppose it does belong to someone else” Luke 
wondered. “What if this Obi-wan person comes look- 
ing for his ’droid?” 

As expression between sorrow and a sneer crossed 
his uncle’s seamed face at a remembrance. “He won't. 
I don’t think that man exists anymore. He died about 
the same time as your father.” A huge mouthful of 
hot food was shoveled inward. “Now forget about 
it.” 

“Then it was a real person,” Luke murmured, star- 
ing down at his plate. He added slowly, “Did he know 
my father?” 

“T said forget about it,” Owen snapped. “Your only 
worry as far as those two "droids are concerned is 


56 STAR WARS 


having them ready for work tomorrow. Remember, 
the last of our savings is tied up in those two. Wouldn’t 
even have bought them if it wasn’t so near harvest.” 
He shook a spoon at his nephew. “In the morning I 
want you to have them working with the irrigation 
units up on the south ridge. 

“You know,” Luke replied distantly, “I think these 
*droids are going to work out fine. In fact, I—’ He 
hesitated, shooting his uncle a surreptitious glare. “I 
was thinking about our agreement about me staying 
on for another season.” 

His uncle failed to react, so Luke rushed on be- 
fore his nerve failed. “If these new ’droids do work 
out, I want to transmit my application to enter the 
Academy for next year.” 

Owen scowled, trying to hide his displeasure with 
food. “You mean, you want to transmit the applica- 
tion next year—after the harvest.” 

“You have more than enough “droids now, and 
they’re in good condition. They'll last.” 

“*Droids, yes,” his uncle agreed, “but *droids can’t 
replace a man, Luke. You know that. The harvest is 
when I need you the most. It’s just for one more 
season after this one.” He looked away, bluster and 
anger gone now. 

Luke toyed with his food, not eating, saying noth- 
ing. 

“Listen,” his uncle told him, “for the first time we’ve 
got a chance for a real fortune. We'll make enough to 
hire some extra hands for next time. Not ’droids— 
people. Then you can go to the Academy.” He fum- 
bled over words, unaccustomed to pleading. “I need 
you here, Luke. You understand that, don’t you?” 

“It’s another year,” his nephew objected sullenly. 
“Another year.” 

How many times had he heard that before? How 
many times had they repeated this identical charade 
with the same result? 

Convinced once more that Luke had come round 


STAR WARS 57 


to his way of thinking, Owen shrugged the objection 
off. “Time will pass before you know it.” 

Abruptly Luke rose, shoving his barely touched 
plate of food aside. “That’s what you said last year 
when Biggs left.” He spun and half ran from the 
room. 

“Where are you going, Luke?” his aunt yelled wor- 
riedly after him. 

Luke’s reply was bleak, bitter. “Looks like I’m 
going nowhere.” Then he added, out of consideration 
for his aunt’s sensibilities, “I have to finish cleaning 
those ’droids if they’re going to be ready to work to- 
morrow.” 

Silence hung in the air of the dining room after 
Luke departed. Husband and wife ate mechanically. 
Eventually Aunt Beru stopped shoving her food 
around her plate, looked up, and pointed out earnestly, 
“Owen, you can’t keep him here forever. Most of 
his friends are gone, the people he grew up with. The 
Academy means so much to him.” 

Listlessly her husband replied, “I’!l make it up to 
him next year. J promise. We’ll have money—or maybe, 
the year after that.” 

“Luke’s just not a farmer, Owen,” she continued 
firmly. “He never will be, no matter how hard you 
try to make him one.” She shook her head slowly. 
“He’s got too much of his father in him.” 

For the first time all evening Owen Lars looked 
thoughtful as well as concerned as he gazed down 
the passage Luke had taken. “That’s what I’m afraid 
of,” he whispered. 


Luke had gone topside. He stood on the sand 
watching the double sunset as first one and then the 
other of Tatooine’s twin suns sank slowly behind the 
distant range of dunes. In the fading light the sands 
turned gold, russet, and flaming red-orange before ad- 
vancing night put the bright colors to sleen for another 
day. Soon, for the first time, those sands would blos- 


58 STAR WARS 


som with food plants. This former wasteland would 
see an eruption of green. 

The thought ought to have sent a thrill of anticipa- 
tion through Luke. He should have been as flushed 
with excitement as his uncle was whenever he 
described the coming harvest. Instead, Luke felt 
nothing but a vast indifferent emptiness. Not even 
the prospect of having a lot of money for the first time 
in his life excited him. What was there to do with 
money in Anchorhead—anywhere on Tatooine, for 
that matter? 

Part of him, an increasingly Jarge part, was grow- 
ing more and more restless at remaining unfulfilled. 
This was not an uncommon feeling in youths his 
age, but for reasons Luke did not understand it was 
much stronger in him than in any of his friends. 

As the night cold came creeping over the sand and 
up his legs, he brushed the grit from his trousers and 
descended into the garage. Maybe working on the 
*droids would bury some of the remorse a little deeper 
in his mind. A quick survey of the chamber showed 
no movement. Neither of the new machines was in 
sight. Frowning slightly, Luke took a small control 
box from his belt and activated a couple of switches 
set into the plastic. 

A low hum came from the box. The caller produced 
the taller of the two robots, Threepio. In fact, he 
gave a yell of surprise as he jumped up behind the 
skyhopper. 

Luke started toward him, openly puzzled. “What 
are you hiding back there for?” 

The robot came stumbling around the prow of the 
craft, his attitude one of desperation. It occurred to 
Luke then that despite his activating the caller, the 
Artoo unit was still nowhere to be seen. 

The reason for his absence—or something related 
to it-came pouring unbidden from Threepio. “It 
wasn’t my fault,” the robot begged frantically. “Please 
don’t deactivate -me! I told him not to go, but he’s 


STAR WARS 59 


faulty. He must be malfunctioning. Something has to- 
tally boiled his logic circuits. He kept babbling on 
about some sort of mission, sir. I never heard a 1o- 
bot with delusions of grandeur before. Such things 
shouldn’t even be within the cogitative theory units 
of one that’s as basic as an Artoo unit, and...” 

“You mean ....?” Luke started to gape. 

“Yes, sir... he’s gone.” 

“And I removed his restraining coupling myself,” 
Luke muttered slowly. Already he could visualize his 
uncle’s face. The last of their savings tied up in these 
*droids, he had said. 

Racing out of the garage, Luke hunted for non- 
existent reasons why the Artoo unit should go ber- 
serk. Threepio followed on his heels. 

From a small ridge which formed the highest 
point close by the homestead, Luke had a panoramic 
view of the surrounding desert. Bringing out the pre- 
cious macrobinoculars, he scanned the rapidly darken- 
ing horizons for something small, metallic, three- 
legged, and out of its mechanical mind. 

Threepio fought his way up through the sand to 
stand beside Luke. “That Artoo unit has always 
caused nothing but trouble,” he groaned. “Astromech 
*droids are becoming too iconoclastic even for me to 
understand, sometimes.” 

The binoculars finally came down, and Luke com- 
mented matter-of-factly, “Well, he’s nowhere in sight.” 
He kicked furiously at the ground. “Damn it—how 
could I have been so stupid, letting it trick me into re- 
moving that restrainer! Uncle Owen’s going to kill 
me.” 

“Bepging your pardon, sir,” ventured a hopeful 
Threepio, visions of jawas dancing in his head, “but 
can’t we go after him?” 

Luke turned. Studiously he examined the wall of 
black advancing toward them. “Not at might. It’s too 
dangerous with all the raiders around. Pm not too 
concerned about the jawas, but sandpeople . . . no, 


60 STAR WARS 


not in the dark. We'll have to wait until morning to 
try to track him.” 

A shout rose from the homestead below. “Luke— 
Luke, are you finished with those ’droids yet? I'm 
turning down the power for the night.” 

“All right!” Luke responded, sidestepping the 
question. “I'll be down in a few minutes, Uncle 
Owen!” Turning, be took one last look at the vanished 
horizon. “Boy, am I in for it!” he muttered, “That lit- 
tle ’droid’s going to get me in a lot of trouble.” 

“Oh, he excells at that, sir.” Threepio confirmed 
with mock cheerfulness. Luke threw him a sour look, 
and together they turned and descended into the 
garage. 


“Luke ... Luke!” Still rubbing the morning sleep 
from his eyes, Owen glanced from side to side, loosen- 
ing his neck muscles. “Where could that boy be loaf- 
ing now?” he wondered aloud at the lack of response. 
There was uo sign of movement in the homestead, 
and he had already checked above. 

“Luke!” he yelled again. Luke, luke, luke... the 
name echoed teasingly back at him from the home- 
stead walls. Turning angrily, he stalked back into the 
kitchen, where Beru was preparing breakfast. 

“Have you seen Luke this morning?” he asked as 
softly as he could manage. 

She glanced briefly at him, then returned to her 
cooking. “Yes. He said he had some things to do be- 
fore he started out to the south ridge this morning, so 
he left early.” 

“Before breakfast?” Owen frowned worriedly. 
“That’s not like him. Did he take the new “droids 
with him?” 

“T think so. I’m sure I saw at least one of them with 
him.” 

“Well,” Owen mused, uncomfortable but with noth- 
ing to really hang imprecations on, “he’d better have 
those ridge units repaired by midday or there'll be hell 
to pay.” 


STAR WARS 61 


An unseen face shielded by smooth white metal 
emerged from the half-buried life pod that now 
formed the backbone of a dune slightly higher than its 
neighbors. The voice sounded efficient, but tired. 

“Nothing,” the inspecting trooper muttered to his 
several companions. “No tapes, and no sign of babi- 
tation.” 

Powerful handguns lowered at the information that 
the pod was deserted. One of the armored men tured, 
calling out to an officer standing some distance away. 
“This is definitely the pod that cleared the rebel ship, 
sir, but there’s nothing on board.” 

“Yet it set down intact,” the officer was murmuring 
to himself. “It could have done so on automatics, 
but if it was a true malfunction, then they shouldn’t 
have been engaged.” Something didn’t make sense. 

“Here’s why there’s nothing on board and no hint of 
life, sir,” a voice declared. 

The officer turned and strode several paces to 
where another trooper was kneeling in the sand. He 
held up an object for the officer’s inspection. It shone 
in the sun. 

“°Droid plating,” the officer observed after a 
quick glance at the metal fragment. Superior and un- 
derling exchanged a significant glance. Then their 
eyes turned simultaneously to the high mesas off to the 
north. 


Gravel and fine sand formed a gritty fog beneath 
the landspeeder as it slid across the rippling waste- 
land of Tatooine on humming repulsors. Occasionally 
the craft would jog slightly as it encountered a dip 
or slight rise, to return to its smooth passage as its 
pilot compensated for the change in terrain. 

Luke leaned back in the seat, luxuriating in un- 
accustomed relaxation as Threepio skillfully directed 
the powerful landcraft around dunes and rocky out- 
crops. “You handle a landspeeder pretty well, for a 
machine,” he noted admiringly. 

“Thank you, sir,” a gratified Threepio responded, 


62 STAR WARS 


his eyes never moving from the landscape ahead. “I 
was not lying to your uncle when I claimed versatility 
as my middle name. In fact, on occasion I have been 
called upon to perform unexpected functions in cir- 
cumstances which would have appalled my designers.” 

Something pinged behind them, then pinged again. 

Luke frowned and popped the speeder canopy. A 
few moments of digging in the motor casing eliminated 
the metallic bark. 

“How’s that?” he yelled forward. 

Threepio signaled that the adjustment was satis- 
factory. Luke turned back into the cockpit and closed 
the canopy over them again. Silently he brushed his 
wind-whipped hair back out of his eyes as his atten- 
tion returned to the dry desert ahead of them. 

“Old Ben Kenobi is supposed to live out in this 
general direction. Even though nobody knows exactly 
where, I don’t see how that Artoo unit could have 
come this far so quickly.” His expression was down- 
cast. “We must have missed him back in the dunes 
somewhere. He could be anywhere out here. And 
Uncle Owen must be wondering why I haven't called 
in from the south ridge by now.” 

Threepio considered a moment, then ventured, 
“Would it help, sir, if you told him that it was my 
fault?” 

Luke appeared to brighten at the suggestion. 
“Sure ... he needs you twice as much now. Probably 
he’ll only deactivate you for a day or so, or give you 
a partial memory flush.” 

Deactivate? Memory flush? Threepio added hastily, 
“On second thought, sir, Artoo would stil! be around 
if you hadn’t removed his restraining module.” 

But something more important than fixing respon- 
sibility for the little robot’s disappearance was on 
Luke’s mind at the moment. “Wait a minute,” he ad- 
vised Threepio as he stared fixedly at the instrument 
panel. “There’s something dead ahead on the metal 
scanner. Can’t distinguish outlines at this distance, but 


STAR WARS 63 


judging by size alone, it could be our wandering 
*droid. Hit it.” 

The landspeeder jumped forward as Threepio en- 
gaged the accelerator, but its occupants were totally 
unaware that other eyes were watching as the craft 
increased its speed. 


Those eyes were not organic, but then, they weren’t 
wholly mechanical, either. No one could say for cer- 
tain, because no one had ever made that intimate a 
study of the Tusken Raiders—known less formally to 
the margin farmers of Tatooine simply as the sand- 
people. . 

The Tuskens didn’t permit close study of them- 
selves, discouraging potential observers by methods 
as effective as they were uncivilized. A few xenologists 
thought they must be related to the jawas. Even fewer 
hypothesized that the jawas were actually the mature 
form of the sandpeople, but this theory was dis- 
counted by the majority of serious scientists. 

Both races affected tight clothing to shield them 
from Tatooine’s twin dose of solar radiation, but 
there most comparisons ended. Instead of heavy. 
woven cloaks like the jawas wore, the sandpeople 
wrapped themselves mummylike in endless swathings 
and bandages and loose bits of cloth. 

Where the jawas feared everything, a Tusken 
Raider feared little. The sandpeople were larger, 
stronger, and far more aggressive. Fortunately for the 
human colonists of Tatooine, they were not very nu- 
merous and elected to pursue their nomadic existence 
in some of Tatooine’s most desolate regions. Con- 
tact between human and Tusken, therefore, was in- 
frequent and uneasy, and they murdered no more than 
a handful of humans per year. Since the human pop- 
ulation had claimed its share of Tuskens, not always 
with reason, a peace of a sort existed between the 
two—as long as neither side gained an advantage. 

One of the pair felt that that unstable condition 
had temporarily shifted in his favor, and he was about 


64 STAR WARS 


to take full advantage of it as he raised his rifle to- 
ward the landspeeder. But his companion grabbed 
the weapon and shoved down on it before it could be 
fired. This set off a violent argument between the two. 
And, as they traded vociferous opinions in a language 
consisting mostly of consonants, the landspeeder sped 
on its way. 

Either because the speeder had passed out of range 
or because the second Tusken had convinced the 
other, the two broke off the discussion and scrambled 
down the back side of the high ridge. Snuffling and a 
shifting of weight took place at the ridge bottom as 
the two Banthas stirred at the approach of their mas- 
ters. Each was as large as a small dinosaur, with bright 
eyes and long, thick fur. They hissed anxiously as the 
two sandpeople approached, then mounted them from 
knee to saddle. 

With a kick Banthas rose, Moving slowly but 
with enormous strides, the two massive horned crea- 
tures swept down the back of the rugged bluff, urged 
on by their anxious, equally outrageous mahouts, 


“It’s him, all right,” Luke declared with mixed an- 
ger and satisfaction as the tiny tripodal form came into 
view. The speeder banked and swung down onto the 
floor of a huge sandstone canyon. Luke slipped his 
tifle out from behind the seat and swung it over his 
shoulder. “Come round in front of him, Threepio,” he 
instructed. : 

“With pleasure, sir.” 

The Artoo unit obviously noted their approach, but 
made no move to escape; it could hardly have outrun 
the landspeeder anyway. Artoo simply halted as soon 
as it detected them and waited until the craft swung 
around in a smooth arc. Threepio came to a sharp 
halt, sending up a low cloud of sand on the smaller 
robot’s right. Then the whine from the landspeeder’s 
engine dropped to a low idling hum as Threepio put 
it in parking mode. A last sigh and the craft stopped 
completely. 


STAR WARS 65 


After finishing a cautious survey of the canyon, 
Luke led his companion out onto the gravelly surface 
and up to Artoo Detoo. “Just where,” he inquired 
sharply, “did you think you were going?” 

A feeble whistle issued from the apologetic robot, 
but it was Threepio and not the recalcitrant rover 
who was abruptly doing most of the talking. 

“Master Luke here is now your rightful owner, 
Artoo, How could you just amble away from him like 
this? Now that he’s found you, let’s have no more of 
this ‘Obi-wan Kenobi’ gibberish. I don’t know where 
you picked that up—or that melodramatic hologram, 
either.” 

Artoo started to beep in protest, but Threepio’s in- 
dignation was too great to permit excuses. “And don’t 
talk to me about your mission. What rot! You're 
fortunate Master Luke doesn’t blast you into a mil- 
lion pieces right here and now.” 

“Not much chance of that,” admitted Luke, a bit 
overwhelmed by Threepio’s casual vindictiveness. 
“Come on—it’s getting late.” He eyed the rapidly 
tising suns. “I just hope we can get back before Uncle 
Owen really lets go.” 

“If you don’t mind my saying so,” Threepio sug- 
gested, apparently unwilling that the Artoo unit should 
get off so easily, “I think you ought to deactivate the 
little fugitive until you’ve gotten him safely back in 
the garage.” 

“No. He’s not going to try anything.” Luke studied 
the softly beeping ’droid sternly. “I hope he’s learned 
his lesson. There’s no need to—” 

Without warning the Artoo unit suddenly leaped 
off the ground—no mean feat considering the weak- 
ness of the spring mechanisms in his three thick legs. 
His cylindrical body was twisting and spinning as he 
let out a frantic symphony of whistles, hoots, and 
electronic exclamations. 

Luke was tired, not alarmed. “What is it? What’s 
wrong with him now?” He was beginning to see how 


66 STAR WARS 


Threepio’s patience could be worn thin. He had had 
about enough of this addled instrument himself. 

Undoubtedly the Artoo unit had acquired the holo 
of the girl by accident, then used it to entice Luke 
into removing his restraining module. Threepio prob- 
ably had the right attitude. Still, once Luke got its 
circuits realigned and its logic couplings cleaned, it 
would make a perfectly serviceable farm unit. Only 
... if that was the case, then why was Threepio look- 
ing around so anxiously? 

‘Oh my, sir. Artoo claims there are several crea- 
tures of unknown type approaching from the south- 
east.” 

That could be another attempt by Artoo to distract 
them, but Luke couldn’t take the chance. Instantly 
he had his rifle off his shoulder and had activated the 
energy cell. He examined the horizon in the indicated 
direction and saw nothing. But then, sandpeople were 
experts at making themselves unseeable. 

Luke suddenly realized exactly how far out they 
were, how much ground the landspeeder had covered 
that morning. “I’ve never been out in this direction 
this far from the farm before,” he informed Threepio. 
“There are some awfully strange things living out here. 
Not all of them have been classified. It’s better to 
treat anything as dangerous until determined other- 
wise. Of course, if it’s something utterly new .. .” 
His curiosity prodded him. In any case, this was prob- 
ably just another ruse of Artoo Detoo’s. “Let’s take a 
look,” he decided. 

Moving cautiously forward and keeping his rifle 
ready, he led Threepio toward the crest of a nearby 
high dune. At the same time he took care not to let 
Artoo out of his sight. 

Once at the top he lay flat and traded his rifle for 
the macrobinoculars. Below, another canyon spread 
out before them, rising to a wind-weathered wall of 
tust and ocher. Advancing the binocs slowly across 
the canyon floor, he settled unexpectedly on two 
tethered shapes. Banthas—and riderless! 


STAR WARS 67 


“Did you say something, sir?” wheezed Threepio, 
struggling up behind Luke. His locomotors were not 
designed for such outer climbing and scrambling, 

“Banthas, all right,” Luke whispered over his shoul- 
der, not considering in the excitement of the moment 
that Threepio might not know a Bantha from a 
panda. 

He looked back into the eyepieces, refocusing 
slightly. “Wait . . . it’s sandpeople, sure. I see one of 
them.” 

Something dark suddenly blocked his sight. For 
a moment he thought that a rock might have moved 
in front of him. Irritably he dropped the binoculars 
and reached out to move the blinding object aside. 
His hand touched something like soft metal. 

It was a bandaged leg about as big around as both 
of Luke’s together. Shocked, he looked up . . . and 
up. The towering figure glaring down at him was no 
jawa. It had seemingly erupted straight from the sand. 

Threepio took a startled step backward and found 
no footing. As gyros whined in protest the tall robot 
tumbled backward down the side of the dune. Frozen 
in place, Luke heard steadily fading bangs and rat- 
tles as Threepio bounced down the steep slope behind 
him. 

As the moment of confrontation passed, the Tusken 
let out a terrifying grunt of fury and pleasure and 
brought down his heavy gaderffii. The double-edged 
ax would have cleaved Luke’s skull neatly in two, 
except that he threw the rifle up in a gesture more 
instinctive than calculated. His weapon deflected the 
blow, but would never do so again. Made from 
cannibalized freighter plating the huge ax shattered 
the barrel and made metallic confetti of the gun’s del- 
icate insides. 

Luke scrambled backward and found himself 
against a steep drop. The Raider stalked him slowly, 
weapon held high over its rag-enclosed head. It ut- 
tered a gruesome, chuckling laugh, the sound made 


68 STAR WARS 


all the more inhuman by the distortion effect of its 
gridlike sandfilter. 

Luke tried to view his situation objectively, as he 
had been instructed to do in survival school. Trouble 
was, his mouth was dry, his hands were shaking, and 
he was paralyzed with fear. With the Raider in front 
of him and a probably fatal drop behind, something 
else in his mind took over and opted for the least pain- 
ful response. He fainted. 

None of the Raiders noticed Artoo Detoo as the 
tiny robot forced himself into a small alcove in the 
rocks near the landspeeder, One of them was carrying 
the inert form of Luke. He dumped the unconscious 
youth in a heap next to the speeder, then joined bis 
fellows as they began swarming over the open craft. 

Supplies and spare parts were thrown in all direc- 
tions. From time to time the plundering would be 
interrupted as several of them quibbled or fought over 
a particularly choice bit of booty. 

Unexpectedly, distribution of the landspeeder’s con- 
tents ceased, and with frightening speed the Raiders 
became part of the desertscape, looking in all direc- 
tions. 

A lost breeze idled absently down the canyon. Far 
off to the west, something howled. A rolling, boom- 
ing drone ricocheted off canyon walls and crawled 
nervously up and down a gorgon scale. 

The sandpeople remained poised a moment longer. 
Then they were uttering loud grunts and moans of 
fright as they rushed to get away from the highly vis- 
ible landspeeder. 

The shivering howl sounded again, nearer this time. 
By now the sandpéople were halfway to their wait- 
ing Banthas, that were likewise lowing tensely and 
tugging at their tethers. 

Although the sound held no meaning for Artoo 
Detoo, the little *droid tried to squeeze himself even 
deeper into the almost-cave. The booming howl came 
closer. Judging by the way the sandpeople had reacted, 
something monstrous beyond imagining had to be be- 


STAR WARS 69 


hind that rolling cry. Something monstrous and 
murder-bent which might not have the sense to dis- 
tinguish between edible organics and inedible ma- 
chines. 

Not even the dust of their passing remained to 
mark where the Tusken Raiders had only minutes 
before been dismembering the interior of the land- 
speeder. Artoo Detoo shut down all but vital func- 
tions, trying to minimize noise and light as a swishing 
sound grew gradually audible. Moving toward the 
landspeeder, the creature appeared above the top of 
a nearby dune. ... 


LIV 


IT was tall, but hardly monstrous. Artoo frowned 
inwardly as he checked ocular circuitry and reacti- 
vated his innards, 

The monster looked very much like an old man. He 
was clad in a shabby cloak and loose robes hung 
with a few small straps, packs, and unrecognizable 
instruments. Artoo searched the human’s wake but 
detected no evidence of a pursuing nightmare. Nor did 
the man appear threatened. Actually, Artoo thought, 
he looked kind of pleased. 

It was impossible to tell where the odd arrival’s 
overlapping attire ended and his skin began. That 
aged visage blended into the sand-stroked cloth, and 
his beard appeared but an extension of the loose 
threads covering his upper chest. 

Hints of extreme climates other than desert, of ulti- 
mate cold and humidity, were etched into that seamed 
face. A questing beak of nose, like a high rock, pro- 
truded outward from a flashflood of wrinkles and 
scars, The eyes bordering it were a liquid crystal- 
azure. The man smiled through sand and dust and 


70 STAR WARS 


beard, squinting at the sight of the crumpled form ly- 
ing quietly alongside the landspeeder. 

Convinced that the sandpeople had been the 
victims of an auditory delusion of some kind—con- 
veniently ignoring the fact that he had experienced it 
also—and likewise assured that this stranger meant 
Luke no harm, Artoo shifted his position slightly, try- 
ing to obtain a better view. The sound produced by 
a tiny pebble he dislodged was barely perceptible 
to his electronic sensors, but the man whirled as if 
shot. He stared straight at Artoo’s alcove, still smiling 
gently. 

‘Hello there,” he called in a deep, surpringly 
cheerful voice. “Come here, my little friend. No need 
to be afraid.” 

Something forthright and reassuring was in that 
voice. In any case, the association of an unknown 
human was preferable to remaining isolated in this 
wasteland. Waddling out into the sunlight, Artoo made 
his way over to where Luke lay sprawled. The robot’s 
bartellike body inclined forward as he examined the 
limp form. Whistles and beeps of concern came from 
within. 

Walking over, the old man bent beside Luke and 
reached out to touch his forehead, then his temple. 
Shortly. the unconscious youth was stirring and mum- 
bling like a dreaming sleeper. 

“Don’t worry,” the human told Artoo, “he'll be all 
tight.” 

As if to confirm this opinion, Luke blinked, stared 
upward uncomprehendingly, and muttered, “What 
happened?’ 

“Rest easy, son,” the man instructed him as he sat 
back on his heels. “You’ve had a busy day.” Again 
the boyish grin. “You’re mighty lucky your head’s still 
attached to the rest of you.” 

Luke looked around, his gaze coming to rest on 
the elderly face hovering above him. Recognition did 
wonders for his condition. 

“Ben ... it’s got to be!” A sudden remembrance 


STAR WARS 71 


made him look around fearfully. But there was no 
sign of sandpeople. Slowly he raised his body to a sit- 
ting position. “Ben Kenobi. . . am I glad to see you!” 

Rising, the old man surveyed the canyon floor 
and rolling rimwall above. One foot played with the 
sand. “The Jundland wastes are not to be traveled 
lightly. It’s the misguided traveler who tempts the 
Tuskens’ hospitality.” His gaze went back to his pa- 
tient. “Tell me, young man, what brings you out this 
far into nowhere?” 

Luke indicated Artoo Detoo. “This little ’droid. 
For a while I thought he’d gone crazy, claiming he 
was searching for a former master, Now I don’t think 
so. I’ve never seen such devotion in a ’droid—mis- 
guided or otherwise. There seems to be no stopping 
him; he even resorted to tricking me.” 

Luke’s gaze shifted upward. “He claims to be the 
property of someone called Obi-wan Kenobi.” Luke 
watched closely, but the man showed no reaction. “Is 
that a relative of yours? My uncle thinks he was a 
real person. Or is it just some unimportant bit of 
scrambled information that got shifted into his primary 
performance bank?” 

An introspective frown did remarkable things to 
that sandlbasted face, Kenobi appeared to ponder the 
question, scratching absently at his scruffy beard. 
“Obi-wan. Kenobi!,” he recited. “Obi-wan .. . now, 
that’s a name I haven’t heard in a Jong time. A long 
time. Most curious.” 

“My uncle said he was dead,” Luke supplied 
helpfully. 

“Oh, he’s not dead,” Kenobi corrected him easily. 
“Not yet, not yet.” 

Luke climbed excitedly to his feet, afl thoughts of 
Tusken Raiders forgotten now. “You know him, 
then?” 

A smile of perverse youthfulness split that collage 
of wrinkled skin and beard. “Of course I know him: 
he’s me. Just as you probably suspected, Luke. I 


72 STAR WARS 


haven’t gone by the name Obi-wan, though, since be- 
fore you were born.” 

“Then,” Luke essayed, gesturing at Artoo Detoo, 
“this "droid does belong to you, as he claims.” 

“Now, that’s the peculiar part,” an openly puzzled 
Kenobi confessed, regarding the silent robot. “I can’t 
seem to remember owning a "droid, least of all a mod- 
ern Artoo unit. Most interesting, most interesting.” 

Something drew the old man’s gaze suddenly to the 
brow of nearby cliffs. “I think it’s best we make use 
of your landspeeder some. The sandpeople are easily 
startled, but they'll soon return in greater numbers. 
A landspeeder’s not a prize readily conceded, and 
after all, jawas they’re not.” 

Placing both hands over his mouth in a peculiar 
fashion, Kenobi inhaled deeply and let out an 
unearthly howl that made Luke jump. “That ought to 
keep any laggards running for a while yet,” the old 
man concluded with satisfaction. 

“That’s a krayt dragon call!” Luke gaped in aston- 
ishment “How did you do that?” 

“Pil show you sometime, son. It’s not too hard. Just 
takes the right attitude, a set of well-used vocal cords, 
and a lot of wind. Now, if you were an imperial bu- 
reaucrat, I could teach you right off, but you’re not.” 
He scanned the cliff-spine again. “And I don’t think 
this is the time or place for it.” 

“I won’t argue that.” Luke was rubbing at the back 
of his head. “Let’s get started.” 

That was when Artoo let out a pathetic beep and 
whirled. Luke couldn’t interpret the electronic squeal, 
but he suddenly comprehended the reason behind it. 
“Threepio.” Luke exclaimed, worriedly. Artoo was 
already moving as fast as possible away from the 
landspeeder. “Come on, Ben.” 

The little robot led them to the edge of a large 
sandpit. It stopped there, pointing downward and 
squeaking mournfully. Luke saw where Artoo was 
pointing, then started cautiously down the smooth, 
shifting slope while Kenobi followed effortlessly. 


STAR WARS 73 


Threepio lay in the sand at the base of the slope 
down which he had rolled and tumbled. His casing 
was dented and badly mangled, One arm lay broken 
and bent a short distance away. 

“Threepio!” Luke called. There was no response. 
Shaking the ‘droid failed to activate anything. Open- 
ing a plate on the robot’s back, Luke flipped a hidden 
switch on and off several times in succession. A low 
hum started, stopped, started again, and then dropped 
to a normal purr. 

Using his remaining arm, Threepio rolled over and 
sat up. “Where am I,” he murmured, as his photo- 
receptors continued to clear. Then he recognized Luke. 
“Oh, I'm sorry, sir. I must have taken a bad step.” 

“You're lucky any of your main circuits are still 
operational,” Luke informed him. He looked signifi- 
cantly toward the top of the hill. “Can you stand? 
We've got to get out of here before the sandpeople 
return.” 

Servomotors whined in protest until Threepio 
ceased struggling. “I don’t think I can make it. You 
go on, Master Luke. It doesn’t make sense to risk your- 
self on my account. I’m finished.” 

‘No, you’re not,” Luke shot back, unaccountably 
affected by this recently encountered machine. But 
then, Threepio was not the usual uncommunicative, 
agrifunctional device Luke was accustomed to dealing 
with. “What kind of talk is that?” 

“Logical,” Threepio informed him. 

Luke shook his head angrily. “Defeatist.” 

With Luke and Ben Kenobi’s aid, the battered 
*droid somehow managed to struggle erect. Little 
Artoo watched from the pit’s rim. 

Hesitating part way up the slope, Kenobi sniffed 
the air suspiciously. “Quickly, son. They're ou the 
move again.” 

Trying to watch the surrounding rocks and his foot- 
steps simultaneously, Luke fought to drag Threepio 
clear of the pit. 


74 STAR WARS 


The decor of Ben Kenobi’s well-concealed cave 
was Spartan without appearing uncomfortable. It 
would not have suited most people, reflecting as it did 
it’s owner’s peculiarly eclectic tastes. The living area 
radiated an aura of lean comfort with more impor- 
tance attached to mental comforts than those of the 
awkward human body. 

They had succeeded in vacating the canyon before 
the Tusken Raiders could return in force. Under 
Kenobi’s direction, Luke left a trail behind them so 
confusing that not even a hypernasal jawa could have 
followed it. 

Luke spent several hours ignoring the temptations 
of Kenobi’s cave. Instead he remained in the corner 
which was equipped as a compact yet complete re- 
pair shop, working to fix Threepio’s severed arm. 

Fortunately, the automatic overload disconnects had 
given way under the severe strain, sealing electronic 
nerves and ganglia without real damage. Repair was 
merely a matter of reattaching the limb to the 
shoulder, then activating the self-reseals. Had the arm 
been broken in mid-“bone” instead of at a joint, such 
repairs would have been impossible save at a factory 
shop. 

While Luke was thus occupied, Kenobi’s attention 
was concentrated on Artoo Detoo. The squat 
*droid sat passively on the cool cavern floor while the 
old man fiddled with its metal insides. Finally the man 
sat back with a “Humph!” of satisfaction and closed 
the open panels in the robot’s rounded head. “Now 
let’s see if we can figure out what you are, my little 
friend, and where you came from.” 

Luke was almost finished anyway, and Kenobi’s 
words were sufficient to pull him away from the re- 
pair area. “I saw part of the message,” he began, “and 
1...” 

Once more the striking portrait was being projected 
into empty space from the front of the little robot. 
Luke broke off, enraptured by its enigmatic beauty 
once again. 


STAR WARS 75 


“Yes, I think that’s got it,” Kenobi murmured 
contemplatively. 

The image continued to flicker, indicating a tape 
hastily prepared. But it was much sharper, better de- 
fined now, Luke noted with admiration. One thing 
was apparent: Kenobi was skilled in subjects more 
specific than desert scavenging. 

“General Obi-wan Kenobi,” the mellifluous voice 
was saying, “I present myself in the name of the world 
family of Alderaan and of the Alliance to Restore the 
Republic. I break your solitude at the bidding of my 
father, Bail Organa, Viceroy and First Chairman of 
the Alderaan system.” 

Kenobi absorbed this extraordinary declamation 
while Luke’s eyes bugged big enough to fall from his 
face. 

“Years ago, General,” the voice continued, “you 
served the Old Republic in the Clone Wars. Now my 
father begs you to aid us again in our most desperate 
hour. He would have you join him on Alderaan. You 
must go to him. 

“T regret that I am unable to present my father’s 
Tequest to you in person. My mission to meet per- 
sonally with you has failed. Hence I have been 
forced to resort to this secondary method of communi- 
cation. 

“Information vital to the survival of the Alliance has 
been secured in the mind of this Detoo ’droid. My 
father will know how to retrieve it. I plead with you 
to see this unit safely delivered to Alderaan.” 

She paused, and when she continued, her words 
were hurried and less laced with formality. “You 
must help me, Obi-wan Kenobi. You are my last 
hope. I will be captured by agents of the Empire. 
They will learn nothing from me. Everything to be 
learned lies locked in the memory cells of this ’droid. 
Do not fail us, Obi-wan Kenobi. Do not fail me.” 

A small cloud of tridimensional static replaced the 
delicate portrait, then it vanished entirely. Artoo 
Detoo gazed up expectantly at Kenobi. 


76 STAR WARS 


Luke’s mind was as muddy as a pond laced with 
petroleum. Unanchored, his thoughts and eyes turned 
for stability to the quiet figure seated nearby. 

The old man. The crazy wizard. The desert bum 
and all-around character whom his uncle and every- 
one else had known of for as long as Luke could 
recall, 

If the breathless, anxiety-ridden message the un- 
known woman had just spoken into the cool air of the 
cave had affected Kenobi in any way he gave no hint 
of it. Instead, he leaned back against the rock wall 
and tugged thoughtfully at his beard, puffing slowly on 
a water pipe of free-form tarnished chrome. 

Luke visualized that simple yet lovely portrait. 
“She’s so—so—” His farming background didn’t 
provide him with the requisite words. Suddenly some- 
thing in the message caused him to stare disbelievingly 
at the oldster. “General Kenobi, you fought in the 
Clone Wars? But . . . that was so long ago.” 

“Um, yes,” Kenobi acknowledged, as casually as 
he might have discussed the recipe for shang stew. “I 
guess it was a while back. I was a Jedi knight once. 
Like,” he added, watching the youth appraisingly, 
“your father.” 

“A Jedi knight,” Luke echoed. Then he looked con- 
fused. “But my father didn’t fight in the Clone Wars. 
He was no knight—just a navigator on a space 
freighter.” . 

Kenobi’s smile enfolded the pipe’s mouthpiece. 
“Or so your uncle has told you.” His attention was 
suddenly focused elsewhere. “Owen Lars didn’t agree 
with your father’s ideas, opinions, or with his philos- 
ophy of life. He believed that your father should have 
stayed here on Tatooine and not gotten involved 
in...” Again the seemingly indifferent shrug. “Well, 
he thought he should have remained here and 
minded his farming.” 

Luke said nothing, his body tense as the old man 
related bits and pieces of a personal history Luke had 
viewed only through his uncle’s distortions. 


STAR WARS 77 


“Owen was always afraid that your father’s adven- 
turous life might influence you, might pull you away 
from Anchorhead.” He shook his head slowly, regret- 
fully at the remembrance. “I’m afraid there wasn’t 
much of the farmer in your father.” 

Luke turned away. He returned to cleaning the 
last particles of sand from Threepio’s healing arma- 
ture. “I wish I’'d known him,” he finally whispered. 

“He was the best pilot I ever knew,” Kenobi went 
on, “and a smart fighter. The force . . . the instinct 
was strong in him.” For a brief second Kenobi actu- 
ally appeared old. “He was also a good friend.” 

Suddenly the boyish twinkle returned to those 
piercing eyes along with the old man’s natural humor. 
“I understand you're quite a pilot yourself. Piloting 
and navigation aren’t hereditary, but a number of the 
things that can combine to make a good small-ship 
pilot are. Those you may have inherited. Still, even a 
duck has to be taught to swim.” 

“What’s a duck?” Luke asked curiously. 

“Never mind. In many ways, you know, you are 
much like your father.” Kenobi’s unabashed look 
of evaluation made Luke nervous. “You’ve grown up 
quite a bit since the last time I saw you.” 

Having no reply for that, Luke waited silently as 
Kenobi sank back into deep contemplation, After a 
while the old man stirred, evidently having reached 
an important decision. 

“All this reminds me,” he declared with deceptive 
casualness, “I have something here for you.” He rose 
and walked over to a bulky, old-fashioned chest and 
started rummaging through it. All sorts of intriguing 
items were removed and shoved around, only to be 
placed back in the bin. A few of them Luke recog- 
nized. As Kenobi was obviously intent on something 
important, he forbore inquiring about any of the other 
tantalizing flotsam. 

“When you were old enough,” Kenobi was saying, 
“your father wanted you to have this .. . if I can 
ever find the blasted device. I tried to give it to you 


78 STAR WARS 


once before, but your uncle wouldn’t allow it. He be- 
lieved you might get some crazy ideas from it and 
end up following old Obi-wan on some idealistic cru- 
sade. 

“You see, Luke, that’s where your father and your 
uncle Owen disagreed. Lars is not a man to let ideal- 
ism interfere with business, whereas your father didn’t 
think the question even worth discussing. His decision, 
on such matters came like his piloting—instinctively.” 

Luke nodded. He finished picking out the last of 
the grit and looked around for one remaining com- 
ponent to snap back into Threepio’s open chest plate. 
Locating the restraining module, he opened the re- 
ceiving latches in the machine and set about locking 
it back in place. Threepio watched the process and 
appeared to wince ever so perceptibly. 

Luke stared into those metal and plastic photo- 
receptors for a long moment. Then he set the module 
pointedly on the workbench and closed the droid up. 
Threepio said nothing. 

A grunt came from behind them, and Luke 
turned to see a pleased Kenobi walking over. He 
handed Luke a small, innocuous-looking device, 
which the youth studied with interest. 

It consisted primarily of a short, thick handgrip 
with a couple of small switches set into the grip. Above 
this smal] post was a circular metal disk barely larger 
in diameter than his spread palm. A number of un- 
familiar, jewellike components were built into both 
handle and disk, including what looked like the 
smallest power cell Luke had ever seen. The reverse 
side of the disk was polished to a mirror brightness. 
But it was the power cell that puzzled Luke the most. 
Whatever the thing was, it required a great deal of 
energy, according to the rating form of the cell. 

Despite the claim that it had belonged to his father, 
the gizmo looked newly manufactured. Kenobi had 
obviously kept it carefully. Only a number of minute 
scratches on the handgrip hinted at previous usage. 


STAR WARS 79 


“Sir?” came a familiar voice Luke hadn’t heard in 
a while. 

“What?” Luke was startled out of his examination. 

“If you'll not be needing me,” Threepio declared, 
“I think I'l shut down for a bit. It will help the 
armature nerves to knit, and I’m due for some internal 
self-cleansing anyhow.” 

“Sure, go ahead,” Luke said absently, returning to 
his fascinated study of the whatever-it-was. Behind 
him, Threepio became silent, the glow fading tem- 
porarily from his eyes. Luke noticed that Kenobi was 
watching him with interest. “What is it?” he finally 
asked, unable despite his best efforts to identify the 
device. 

“Your father’s lightsaber,” Kenobi told him. “At 
one time they were widely used. Still are, in certain 
galactic quarters.” 

Luke examined the controls on the handle, then 
tentatively touched a brightly colored button up near 
the mirrored pommel. Instantly the disk put forth a 
blue-white beam as thick around as his thumb. It was 
dense to the point of opacity and a little over a meter 
in length. It did not fade, but remained as brilliant 
and intense at its far end as it did next to the disk. 
Strangely, Luke felt no heat from it, though he was 
very careful not to touch it. He knew what a lightsaber 
could do, though he had never seen one before. It 
could drill a hole right through the rock wall of 
Kenobi’s cave—or through a human being. 

“This was the formal weapon of a Jedi knight,” 
explained Kenobi. “Not as clumsy or random as a 
blaster. More skill than simple sight was required for 
its use. An elegant weapon. It was a symbol as well. 
Anyone can use a blaster or fusioncutter—but to use a 
lightsaber well was a mark of someone a cut above 
the ordinary.” He was pacing the floor of the cave 
as he spoke. 

“For over a thousand generations, Luke, the Jedi 
knights were the most powerful, most respected force 
in the galaxy. They served as the guardians and 


80 STAR WARS 


guarantors of peace and justice in the Old Republic.” 

When Luke failed to ask what had happened to 
them since, Kenobi looked up to see that the youth 
was staring vacantly into space, having absorbed lit- 
tle if any of the oldster’s instruction. Some men would 
have chided Luke for not paying attention. Not Kenobi. 
More sensitive than most, he waited patiently until 
the silence weighed strong enough on Luke for him to 
resume speaking. 

“How,” he asked slowly, “did my father die?” 

Kenobi hesitated, and Luke sensed that the old 
man had no wish to talk about this particular mat- 
ter. Unlike Owen Lars, however, Kenobi was unable 
to take refuge in a comfortable lie. 

“He was betrayed and murdered,” Kenobi declared 
solmenly, “by a very young Jedi named Darth 
Vader.” He was not looking at Luke. “A boy I was 
training. One of my brightest disciples . . . one of my 
greatest failures.” 

Kenobi resumed his pacing. “Vader used the train- 
ing I gave him and the force within him for evil, to 
help the later corrupt Emperors, With the Jedi knights 
disbanded, disorganized, or dead, there were few to 
oppose Vader. Today they are all but extinct.” 

An indecipherable expression crossed Kenobi’s face. 
“In many ways they were too good, too trusting for 
their own health. They put too much trust in the sta- 
bility of the Republic, failing to realize that while the 
body might be sound, the head was growing diseased 
and feeble, leaving it open to manipulation by such as 
the Emperor. 

“I wish I knew what Vader was after. Sometimes 
I have the feeling he is marking time in preparation 
for some incomprehensible abomination. Such is the 
destiny of one who masters the force and is con- 
sumed by its dark side.” 

Luke’s face twisted in confusion. “A force? That’s 
the second time you’ve mentioned a ‘force.’ ” 

Kenobi nodded. “I forget sometimes in whose pres- 
ence I babble. Let us say simply that the force is 


STAR WARS 81 


something a Jedi must deal with. While it has never 
been properly explained, scientists have theorized it is 
an energy field generated by living things. Early man 
suspected its existence, yet remained in ignorance of 
its potential for millennia, 

“Only certain individuals could recognize the force 
for what it was. They were mercilessly labeled: 
charlatans, fakers, mystics—and worse. Even fewer 
could make use of it. As it was usually beyond their 
primitive controls, it frequently was too powerful for 
them. They were misunderstood by their fellows—and 
worse.” 

Kenobi made a wide, all-encompassing gesture with 
both arms. “The force surrounds each and every one 
of us. Some men believe it directs our actions, and not 
the other way around. Knowledge of the force and 
how to manipulate it was what gave the Jedi his spe- 
cial power.” 

The arms came down and Kenobi stared at Luke 
until the youth began to fidget uncomfortably. When 
he spoke again it was in a tone so crisp and unaged 
that Luke jumped in spite of himself. “You must 
learn the ways of the force also, Luke—if you are to 
come with me to Alderaan.” 

“Alderaan!” Luke hopped off the repair seat, look- 
ing dazed. “I’m not going to Alderaan. I don’t even 
know where Alderaan is.” Vaporators, ’droids, harvest 
—abruptly the surroundings seemed to close in on 
him, the formerly intriguing furnishings and alien ar- 
tifacts now just a mite frightening. He looked around 
wildly, trying to avoid the piercing gaze of Ben 
Kenobi . . . old Ben .. . crazy Ben . . . General 
Obi-wan.. 

“T’ve got to get back home,” he found himself mut- 
tering thickly. “It’s late. I’m in for it as it is.” 
Remembering something, he gestured toward the mo- 
tionless bulk of Artoo Detoo. “You can keep the 
‘droid. He seems to want you to. Pll think of some= 
thing to tell my uncle—I hope,” he added for- 
lornly, 


82 STAR WARS 


“I need your help, Luke,” Kenobi explained, his 
manner a combination of sadness and steel. “I’m get- 
ting too old for this kind of thing. Can’t trust myself to 
finish it properly on my own. This mission is far too 
important.” He nodded toward Artoo Detoo. “You 
heard and saw the message.” 

“But . . . I can’t get involved with anything like 
that,” protested Luke. “I’ve got work to do; we’ve got 
crops to bring in—even though Uncle Owen could al- 
ways break down and hire a little extra help. I mean, 
one, I guess. But there’s nothing I can do about it. 
Not now. Besides, that’s all such a long way from 
here. The whole thing is really none of my business.” 

“That sounds like your uncle talking,” Kenobi ob- 
served without rancor. 

“Oh! My uncle Owen... How am I going to 
explain all this to him?” 

The old man suppressed a smile, aware that Luke’s 
destiny had already been determined for him. It had 
been ordained five minutes before he had learned 
about the manner of his father’s death. It had been 
ordered before that when he had heard the complete 
message. It had been fixed in the nature of things 
when he had first viewed the pleading portrait of the 
beautiful Senator Organa awkwardly projected by the 
little "droid. Kenobi shrugged inwardly. Likely it had 
been finalized even before the boy was born. Not 
that Ben believed in predestination, but he did be- 
lieve in heredity—and in the force. 

“Remember, Luke, the suffering of one man is 
the suffering of all. Distances are irrelevant to injus- 
tice. If not stopped soon enough, evil eventually 
reaches out to engulf all men, whether they have op- 
posed it or ignored it.” 

“I suppose,” Luke confessed nervously, “I could 
take you as far as Anchorhead. You can get transport 
from there to Mos Eisley, or wherever it is you want 
to go.” 

Very well,” agreed Kenobi. “That will do for a 
beginning. Then you must do what you feel is right.” 


STAR WARS 83 


Luke tured away, now thoroughly confused. 
“Okay. Right now I don’t feel too good .. .” 


The holding hole was deathly dim, with only the 
bare minimum of illumination provided. There was 
barely enough to see the black metal walls and the 
high ceiling overhead. The cell was designed to max- 
imize a prisioner’s feelings of helplessness, and this it 
achieved well, So much so that the single occupant 
started tensely as a hum came from one end of the 
chamber. The metal door which began moving aside 
was as thick as her body—as if, she mused bitterly, 
they were afraid she might break through anything 
less massive with her bare hands. 

Straining to see outside, the girl saw several im- 
perial guards assume positions just outside the door- 
way. Eyeing them defiantly, Leia Organa backed up 
against the far wall. 

Her determined expression collapsed as soon as a 
monstrous black form entered the room, gliding 
smoothly as if on treads. Vader’s presence crushed her 
spirit as thoroughly as an elephant would crush an 
eggshell. That villain was followed by an antiqued 
whip of a man who was only slightly less terrifying, 
despite his miniscule appearance alongside the Dark 
Lord, 

Darth Vader made a gesture to someone outside. 
Something that hummed like a huge bee moved close 
and slipped inside the doorway. Leia choked on her 
own breath at the sight of the dark metal globe. It 
hung suspended on independent repulsors, a farrago 
of metal arms protruding from its sides. The arms 
were tipped with a multitude of delicate instruments. 

Leia studied the contraption fearfully. She had 
heard rumors of such machines, but had never really 
believed that Imperial technicians would construct 
such a monstrosity. Incorporated into its soulless 
memory was every barbarity, every substantiated 
outrage known to mankind—and to several alien 
races as well, 


84 STAR WARS 


Vader and Tarkin stood there quietly, giving her 
plenty of time to study the hovering nightmare. The 
Governor in particular did not delude himself into 
thinking that the mere presence of the device would 
shock her into giving up the information he needed. 
Not, he reflected, that the ensuing session would be 
especially unpleasant. There was always enlighten- 
ment and knowledge to be gained from such encoun- 
ters, and the Senator promised to be a most interesting 
subject. 

After a suitable interval had passed, he motioned to 
the machine. “Now, Senator Organa, Princess Organa, 
we will discuss the location of the principal rebel 
base.” 

The machine moved slowly toward her, traveling 
on a risiag hum. Its indifferent spherical form blocked 
out Vader, the Governor, the rest of the cell... the 


light... 


Muffled sounds penetrated the cell walls and thick 
door, drifting out into the hallway beyond. They 
barely intruded on the peace and quiet of the walkway 
Tunning past the sealed chamber. Even so, the guards 
stationed immediately outside managed to find excuses 
to edge a sufficient distance away to where those 
oddly modulated sounds could no longer be heard 
at all. 


“LOOK over there, Luke,” Kenobi ordered, pointing 
to the southwest. The landspeeder continued to race 
over the gravelly desert floor beneath them. “Smoke, 
T should think.” 

Luke spared a glance at the indicated direction. “J 
don’t see anything, sir.” 


STAR WARS 85 


“Let’s angle over that way anyhow. Someone may 
be in trouble.” 

Luke turned the speeder. Before long the rising 
wisps of smoke that Kenobi had somehow detected 
earlier became visible to him also. 

Topping a slight rise, the speeder dropped down a 
gentle slope into a broad, shallow canyon that was 
filled with twisted, burned shapes, some of them in- 
organic, some not. Dead in the center of this carnage 
and looking like a beached metal whale lay the shat- 
tered hulk of a jawa sandcrawler. 

Luke brought the speeder to a halt. Kenobi followed 
him onto the sand, and together they began to ex- 
amine the detritus of destruction. 

Several slight depressions in the sand caught Luke’s 
attention. Walking a little faster, he came up next to 
them and studied them for a moment before calling 
back to Kenobi. 

“Looks like the sandpeople did it, all right. Here’s 
Bantha tracks . . .” Luke noticed a gleam of metal 
half buried in the sand. “And there’s a piece of one 
of those big double axes of theirs.” He shook his head 
in confusion. “But I never heard of the Raiders hitting 
something this big.” He leaned back, staring up at the 
towering, burned-out bulk of the sandcrawler. 

Kenobi had passed him. He was examining the 
broad, huge footprints in the sand. “They didn’t,” he 
declared casually, “but they intended that we—and 
anyone else who might happen onto this—should 
think so.” Luke moved up alongside him. 

“TJ don’t understand, sir.” 

“Look at these tracks carefully,” the older man di- 
tected him, pointing down at the nearest and then up 
at the others. “Notice anything funny about them?” 
Luke shook his head. “Whoever left here was riding 
Banthas side by side. Sandpeople always ride one 
Bantha behind another, single file, to hide their 
strength from any distant observers.” 

Leaving Luke to gape at the parallel sets of tracks, 
Kenobi turned his attention to the sandcrawler. He 


86 STAR WARS 


pointed out where single weapons’ bursts had blasted 
away portals, treads, and support beams. “Look at the 
precision with which this firepower was applied. 
Sandpeople aren’t this accurate. In fact, no one on 
Tatooine fires and destroys with this kind of effi- 
ciency.” Turning, he examined the horizon. One of 
those nearby bluffs concealed a secret—and a threat. 
“Only Imperial troops would mount an attack on a 
sandcrawler with this kind of cold accuracy.” 

Luke had walked over to one of the small, crum- 
pled bodies and kicked it over onto its back. His face 
screwed up in distaste as he saw what remained of 
the pitiful creature. 

“These are the same jawas who sold Uncle Owen 
and me Artoo and Threepio. I recognize this one’s 
cloak design. Why would Imperial troops be slaugh- 
tering jawas and sandpeople? They must have killed 
some Raiders to get those Banthas.” His mind worked 
furiously, and he found himself growing unnaturally 
tense as he stared back at the landspeeder, past the 
tapidly deteriorating corpses of the jawas. 

‘But . . . if they tracked the ’droids to the jawas, 
then they had to learn first who they sold them to. 
That would lead them back to .. .” Luke was sprint- 
ing insanely for the landspeeder. 

“Luke, wait ... . wait, Luke!” Kenobi called. “It’s 
too dangerous! You’d never... !” 

Luke heard nothing except the roaring in his ears, 
felt nothing save the burning in his heart. He jumped 
into the speeder and was throwing the accelerator 
full over almost simultaneously. In an explosion of 
sand and gravel he left Kenobi and the two robots 
standing alone in the midst of smoldering bodies, 
framed by the still smoking wreck of the sandcrawler. 


The smoke that Luke saw as he drew near the 
homestead was of a different consistency from that 
which had boiled out of the jawa machine. He barely 
remembered to shut down the landspeeder’s engine as 
he popped the cockpit canopy and threw himself out. 


STAR WARS 87 


Dark smoke was drifting steadily from holes in the 
ground, 

Those holes had been his home, the only one he 
had ever known. They might as well have been 
throats of small volcanoes now. Again and again he 
tried to penetrate the surface entrances to the below- 
ground complex. Again and again the still-intense 
heat drove him back, coughing and choking. 

Weakly he found himself stumbling clear, his eyes 
watering not entirely from the smoke. Half blinded, 
he staggered over to the exterior entrance to the ga- 
rage. It too was burning. But perhaps they managed 
to escape in the other landspeeder. 

“Aunt Beru ... Uncle Owen!” It was difficult to 
make out much of anything through the eye-stinging 
haze. Two smoking shapes showed down the tunnel, 
barely visible through tears and haze. They almost 
looked like— He squinted harder, wiping angrily at 
his uncooperative eyes. 

No. 

Then he was spinning away, falling to his stomach 
and burying his face in the sand so he wouldn’t have 
to look anymore. 


The tridimensional solid screen filled one wall of 
the vast chamber from floor to ceiling. It showed a 
million star systems. A tiny portion of the galaxy, 
but an impressive display nonetheless when exhibited 
in such a fashion. 

Below, far below, the huge shape of Darth Vader 
stood flanked on one side by Governor Tarkin and on 
the other by Admiral Motti and General Tagge, their 
Private antagonisms forgotten in the awesomeness of 
this moment. 

“The final checkout is complete,” Motti informed 
them. “All systems are operational.” He turned to the 
others. “What shall be the first course we set?” 

Vader appeared not to have heard as he mumbled 
softly, half to himself, “She has a surprising amount 
of control. Her resistance to the interrogator is con- 


88 STAR WARS 


siderable.” He glanced down at Tarkin. “It will be 
some time before we can extract any useful informa- 
tion from her.” 

“I’ve always found the methods you recommend 
rather quaint, Vader.” 

“They are efficient,” the Dark Lord argued softly. 
“In the interests of accelerating the procedure, how- 
ever, I am open to your suggestions.” 

Tarkin looked thoughtful. “Such stubbornness can 
often be detoured by applying threats to something 
other than the one involved.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“Only that I think it is time we demonstrated the 
full power of this station. We may do so in a fashion 
doubly useful.” He instructed the attentive Motti, “Tell 
your programmers to set course for the Alderaan sys- 
tem.” 


“Kenobi’s pride did not prevent him from wrapping 
an old scarf over nose and mouth to filter out a por- 
tion of the bonfire’s drifting putrid odor. Though pos- 
sessed of olfactory sensory apparatus, Artoo Detoo and 
Threepio had no need of such a screen. Even Three- 
pio, who was equipped to discriminate among 
aromatic aesthetics, could be artificially selective when 
he so desired. 

Working together, the two ’droids helped Kenobi 
throw the last of the bodies onto the blazing pyre, 
then stood back and watched the dead continue to 
burn. Not that the desert scavengers wouldn’t have 
been equally efficient in picking the burned-out sand- 
crawler clean of flesh, but Kenobi retained values 
Most modern men would have deemed archaic. He 
would consign no one to the bone-gnawers and gravel- 
maggots, not even a filthy jawa. 

At a rising thrumming Kenobi turned from the res- 
idue of the noisome business to see the landspeeder 
approaching, now traveling at a sensible pace, far dif- 
ferent from when it had left. It slowed and hovered 
nearby, but showed no signs of life. 


STAR WARS 89 


Gesturing for the two robots to follow, Ben started 
toward the waiting craft. The canopy flipped open 
and up to reveal Luke sitting motionless in the pilot's 
seat. He didn’t look up at Kenobi’s inquiring glance. 
That in itself was enough to tell the old man what 
had happened. 

“I share your sorrow, Luke,” he finally ventured 
softly. “There was nothing you could have done. Had 
you been there, you’d be dead now, too, and the 
*droids would be in the hands of the Imperials. Not 
even the force—” 

“Damn your force!” Luke snarled with sudden vio- 
lence. Now he turned and glared at Kenobi. There 
was a set to his jaw that belonged on a much older 
face. 

“Tl take you to the spaceport at Mos Eisley, Ben. 
I want to go with you—-to Alderaan. There’s nothing 
left for me here now.” His eyes turned to look out 
across the desert, to focus on something beyond sand 
and rock and canyon walls. “I want to learn to be 
like a Jedi, like my father. I want . . .” He paused, 
the words backing up like a logjam in his throat. 

Kenobi slid into the cockpit, put a hand gently on 
the youth’s shoulder, then went forward to make 
room for the two robots. “I'll do my best to see that 
you get what you want, Luke. For now, let’s go to 
Mos Eisley.” 

Luke nodded and closed the canopy. The land- 
speeder moved away to the southeast, leaving be- 
bind the still-smoldering sandcrawler, the jawa funeral 
pyre, and the only life Luke had ever known. 


Leaving the speeder parked near the edge of the 
sandstone bluff, Luke and Ben walked over and 
peered down at the tiny regularized bumps erupting 
from the sun-baked plain below. The haphazard col- 
lage of low-grade concrete, stone, and plastoid 
structures spread outward from a central power-and- 
water-distribution plant like the spokes of a wheel. 

Actually the town was considerably larger than it 


90 STAR WARS 


appeared, since a good portion of it lay underground. 
Looking like bomb craters from this distance, the 
smooth circular depressions of launch stations pock- 
marked the cityscape. 

A brisk gale was scouring the tired ground. It 
whipped the sand about Luke’s feet and legs as he 
adjusted his protective goggles. 

“There it is,” Kenobi murmured, indicating the un- 
impressive collection of buildings, “Mos Eisley Space- 
port—the ideal place for us to lose ourselves while 
we seek passage offplanet. Not a more wretched col- 
lection of villainy and disreputable types exists any- 
where on Tatooine. The Empire has been alerted to 
us, SO we must be very cautious, Luke. The popula- 
tion of Mos Eisley should disguise us well.” 

Luke wore a determined look. “I’m ready for any- 
thing, Obi-wan.” 

I wonder if you comprehend what that might entail, 
Luke, Kenobi thought. But he only nodded as he led 
the way back to the landspeeder. 

Unlike Anchorhead, there were enough people in 
Mos Eisley to require movement in the heat of day. 
Built from the beginning with commerce in mind, even 
the oldest of the town’s buildings had been designed 
to provide protection from the twin suns. They looked 
primitive from the outside, and many were. But often- 
times walls and arches of old stone masked durasteel 
double walls with circulating coolant flowing freely 
between. 

Luke was maneuvering the landspeeder through the 
town’s outskirts when several tall, gleaming forms ap- 
peared from nowhere and began to close a circle 
around him. For one panicked moment he considered 
gunning the engine and racing through the pedestrians 
and other vehicles. A startlingly firm grip on his arm 
both restrained and relaxed him. He glanced over to 
see Kenobi smiling, warming him. 

So they continued at a normal town cruising speed, 
Luke hoping that the imperial troops were bent on 
business elsewhere. No such luck. One of the troop- 


STAR WARS 91 


ers taised an armored hand. Luke had no choice 
but to respond. As he pulled the speeder over, he grew 
aware of the attention they were receiving from curi- 
ous passersby. Worse yet, it seemed that the trooper’s 
attention was in fact reserved not for Kenobi or him- 
self, but for the two unmoving robots seated in the 
speeder behind them. 

“How long have you had these ’droids?” the trooper 
who had raised his hand barked. Polite formalities 
were to be dispensed with, it appeared. 

Looking blank for a second, Luke finally came up 
with “Three or four seasons, I guess.” 

“They’re up for sale, if you want them—and the 
price is right,” Kenobi put in, giving a wonderful im- 
pression of a desert finagler out to cajole a few quick 
credits from ignorant Imperials. 

The trooper in charge did not deign to reply. He 
was absorbed in a thorough examination of the land- 
speeder’s underside. 

“Did you come in from the south?” he asked. 

“No... no,” Luke answered quickly, “we live in 
the west, near Bestine township.” 

“Bestine?” the trooper murmured, walking around 
to study the speeder’s front. Luke forced himself 
to stare straight ahead. Finally the armored figure 
concluded his examination. He moved to stand om- 
inously close to Luke and snapped, “Let me see your 
identification.” 

Surely the man sensed his terror and nervousness 
by now, Luke thought wildly. His resolution of not 
long before to be ready to take on anything had al- 
ready disintegrated under the unwinking stare of this 
professional soldier. He knew what would happen 
if they got a look at his formal ID, with the location 
of his homestead and the names of his nearest rela- 
tives on it. Something seemed to be buzzing inside 
his head; he felt faint. 

Kenobi had leaned over and was talking easily to 
the trooper. “You don’t need to see his identification,” 


92 STAR WARS 


the old man informed the Imperial in an extremely 
peculiar voice. 

Staring blankly back at him, the officer replied, as 
if it were self-evident, “I don’t need to see your 
identification.” His reaction was the opposite of 
Kenobi’s: his voice was normal, but his expression 
peculiar. 

“These aren’t the ’droids you’re looking for,” 
Kenobi told him pleasantly. 

“These aren’t the ’droids we’re looking for.” 

“He can go about his business. 

“You can go about your business,” the metal- 
masked officer informed Luke. 

The expression of relief that spread across Luke’s 
face ought to have been as revealing as his previous 
nervousness, but the Imperial ignored it. 

“Move along,” Kenobi whispered. 

“Move along,” the officer instructed Luke. 

Unable to decide whether he should salute, nod, or 
give thanks to the man, Luke settled for nudging the 
accelerator. The landspeeder moved forward, drawing 
away from the circle of troops. As they prepared to 
round a corner, Luke risked a glance backward. The 
officer who had inspected them appeared to be arguing 
with several comrades, though at this distance Luke 
couldn’t be sure. 

He peered up at his tall companion and started to 
say something. Kenobi only shook his head slowly and 
smiled. Swallowing his curiosity, Luke concentrated 
on guiding the speeder through steadily narrowing 
streets. 

Kenobi seemed to have some idea where they were 
headed. Luke studied the run-down structures and 
equally unwholesome-looking individuals they were 
passing. They had entered the oldest section of Mos 
Eisley and consequently the one where the old vices 
flourished most strongly. 

Kenobi painted and Luke pulled the landspeeder 
up in front of what appeared to be one of the origi- 
nal spaceport’s first blockhouses. It had been con- 


STAR WARS 93 


verted into a cantina whose clientele was suggested 
by the diverse nature of transport parked outside. 
Some of them Luke recognized, others he had only 
heard rumors of. The cantina itself, he knew from the 
design of the building, must lie partially underground. 

As the dusty but still sleek craft pulled into an open 
spot, a jawa materialized from nowhere and began 
running covetous hands over the metal sides. Luke 
leaned out and barked something harsh at the sub- 
human which caused it to scurry away. 

“I can’t abide those jawas,” murmured Threepio 
with lofty disdain. “Disgusting creatures.” 

Luke’s mind was too full of their narrow escape 
for him to comment on Threepio’s sentiments. “T 
still can’t understand how we got by those troops. I 
thought we were as good as dead.” 

“The force is in the mind, Luke, and can some- 
times be used to influence others. It’s a powerful 
ally. But as you come to know the force, you will 
discover that it can also be a danger.” 

Nodding without really understanding, Luke in- 
dicated the run-down though obviously popular can- 
tina. “Do you really think we can find a pilot here 
capable of taking us all the way to Alderaan?” 

Kenobi was exiting from the speeder. “Most of the 
good, independent freighter pilots frequent this place, 
though many can afford better. They can talk freely 
here. You should have learned by now, Luke, not to 
equate ability with appearance.” Luke saw the old 
man’s shabby clothing anew and felt ashamed. 
“Watch yourself, though. This place can be rough.” 

Luke found himself squinting as they entered the 
cantina. It was darker inside than he would have 
liked. Perhaps the regular habitués of this place were 
unaccustomed to the light of day, or didn’t wish to be 
seen clearly. It didn’t occur to Luke that the dim in- 
terior in combination with the brilliantly lit entrance 
permitted everyone inside to see each newcomer be- 
fore he could see them. 

Moving inward, Luke was astonished at the variety 


94 STAR WARS 


of beings making use of the bar. There were one- 
eyed creatures and thousand-eyed, creatures with 
scales, creatures with fur, and some with skin that 
seemed to ripple and change consistency according 
to their feelings of the moment. 

Hovering near the bar itself was a towering 
insectoid that Luke glimpsed only as a threatening 
shadow. It contrasted with two of the tallest women 
Luke had ever seen. They were among the most 
normal-looking of the outrageous assemblage of hu- 
mans that mixed freely among alien counterparts. 
Tentacles, claws, and hands were wrapped around 
drinking utensils of various sizes and shapes. Con- 
versation was a steady babble of human and alien 
tongues. 

Leaning close, Kenobi gestured toward the far end 
of the bar. A small knot of rough-looking humans 
lounged there, drinking, laughing, and trading stories 
of dubious origin. 

“Corellians—pirates, most likely.” 

“T thought we were looking for an independent 
freighter captain with his own ship for hire,” Luke 
whispered back. 

“So we are, young Luke, so we are,” agreed 
Kenobi. “And there’s bound to be one or two ade- 
quate for our needs among that group. It’s just that 
in Corellian terminology the distinction between who 
owns what cargo tends to get a little muddled from 
time to time. Wait here.” 

Luke nodded and watched as Kenobi worked his 
way through the crowd. The Correllians’ suspicion at 
his approach vanished as soon as he engaged them 
in conversation. 

Something grabbed Luke’s shoulder and spun him 
around. 

“Hey” Looking around and struggling to regain his 
composure, he found himself staring up at an enor- 
mous, scruffy-looking human. Luke saw by the man’s 
clothing that he must be the bartender, if not the 
owner of this cantina. 


STAR WARS 95 


“We don’t serve their kind in here,” the glaring 
form growled. 

“What?” Luke replied dumbly. He still hadn’t re- 
covered from his sudden submergence into the cultures 
of several dozen races. It was rather different from 
the poolroom behind the Anchorhead power station. 
“Your ‘droids,” the bartender explained impa- 
tiently, gesturing with a thick thumb. Luke peered in 
the indicated direction, to see Artoo and Threepio 
standing quietly nearby. “They'll have to wait outside. 
We don’t serve them in here. J only carry stuff for 
organics, not,” he concluded with an expression of 
distaste, “mechanicals.” 

Luke didn’t like the idea of kicking Threepio and 
Artoo out, but he didn’t know how else to deal with 
the problem. The bartender didn’t appear to be the 
sort who would readily respond to reason, and when 
he looked around for old Ben, Luke saw that he was 
locked in deep conversation with one of the Corellians. 

Meanwhile, the discussion had attracted the atten- 
tion of several especially gruesome-looking types who 
happened to be clustered within hearing range. All 
were regarding Luke and the two ‘droids in a de- 
cidely unfriendly fashion. 

“Yes, of course,” Luke said, realizing this wasn’t 
the time or place to force the issue of ‘droid rights. 
“I’m sorry.” He looked over at Threepio. “You'd 
better stay outside with the speeder. We don’t want 
any trouble in here.” 

“T heartily agree with you, sir,” Threepio said, his 
gaze traveling past Luke and the bartender td“take 
in the unfriendly stares at the bar. “I don’t feel the 
need for lubrication at the moment anyway.” With 
Artoo waddling in his wake, the tall robot hastily 
headed for the exit. 

That finished things as far as the bartender was 
concerned, but Luke now found himself the subject 
of some unwanted attention. He abruptly became 
aware of his isolation and felt as if at one time or 
another every eye in the place rested a moment on 


96 STAR WARS 


him, that things human and otherwise were smirk- 
ing and: making comments about him behind his back. 

Trying to maintain an air of quiet confidence, he 
returned his gaze to old Ben, and started when he 
saw what the oldster was talking to now, The 
Corellian was gone. In its place Kenobi was chatting 
with a towering anthropoid that showed a mouthful 
of teeth when it smiled. 

Luke had heard about Wookies, but he had never 
expected to see one, much less meet one. Despite an 
almost comical quasi-monkey face, the Wookie was 
anything but gentle-looking. Only the large, glowing 
yellow eyes softened its otherwise awesome appear- 
ance. The massive torso was covered entirely with 
soft, thick russet fur. Less appealing cover consisted of 
a pair of chromed bandoliers which held lethal projec- 
tiles of a type unknown to Luke. Other than these, the 
Wookies wore little. 

Not, Luke knew, that anyone would laugh at the 
creature’s mode of dress. He saw that other denizens 
of the bar eddied and swirled around the huge form 
without ever coming too close. All but old Ben—Ben 
who was talking to the Wookie in its own language, 
quarreling and hooting softly like a native. 

In the course of the conversation the old man had 
occasion to gesture in Luke’s direction. Once the huge 
anthropoid stared directly at Luke and let out a hor- 
rifying howling laugh. 

Disgruntled by the role he was evidently playing 
in the discussion, Luke turned away and pretended 
to ignore the whole conversation. He might be act- 
ing unfairly toward the creature, but he doubted that 
spine-quaking laugh was meant in gentle good- 
fellowship. 

For the life of him he couldn’t understand what 
Ben wanted with the monster, or why he was spend- 
ing his time in guttural conversation with it instead of 
with the now-vanished Corellians. So he sat and 
sipped his drink in splendid silence, his eyes roving 


STAR WARS 97 


over the crowd in hopes of meeting a responsive gaze 
that held no belligerence. 

Suddenly, something shoved him roughly from be- 
hind, so hard he almost fell, He turned angrily, but his 
fury spent itself in astonishment. He found himself 
confronted by a large squarish monstrosity of multiple 
eyes and indeterminate origin. : 

“Negola dewaghi wooldugger?” the apparition bub- 
bled challengingly. 

Luke had never seen its like before; he knew nei- 
ther its species nor its language. The gabbling might 
have been an invitation to a fight, a request to share a 
drink, or a marriage proposal. Despite his ignorance, 
however, Luke could tell by the way the creature bob- 
bed and wove unsteadily on its podal supports that it 
had imbibed too much of whatever it considered a 
pleasing intoxicant. 

Not knowing what else to do, Luke tried turning 
back to his own drink while studiously ignoring the 
creature. As he did so, a thing—a cross between a 
capybara and a small baboon—bounced over to stand 
(or squat) next to the quivering many-eye. A short, 
prubby-looking human also approached and put a 
companionable arm around the snuffling mass. 

“He doesn’t like you,” the stubby human in- 
formed Luke in a surprisingly deep voice. 

“I’m sorry about that,” Luke admitted, wishing 
heartily he were somewhere else. 

“T don’t like you, either,” the smiling little man 
went on with brotherly negativity. 

“I said I was sorry about it.” 

Whether from the conversation it was having with 
the rodentlike creature or the overdose of booze, the 
apartment house for wayward eyeballs was obviously 
growing agitated. It leaned forward, almost toppling 
into Luke, and spewed a stream of unintelligible gib- 
berish at him. Luke felt the eyes of a crowd on him 
as he grew increasingly more nervous. 

“ Sorry,’ the human mimicked derisively, clearly 
deep into his own cups. “Are you insulting us? You 


98 STAR WARS 


just better watch yourself. We're all wanted.” He in- 
dicated his drunken companions. “I have the death 
sentence on me in twelve different systems.” 

“Tl be careful, then,” Luke muttered. 

The little man was smiling broadly. “You'll be 
dead.” 

At this the rodent let out a loud grunt. It was 
either a signal or a warning, because everything 
human or otherwise which had been leaning up at the 
bar immediately backed away, leaving a clear space 
around Luke and his antagonists. 

Trying to salvage the situation, Luke essayed a wan 
smile. That faded rapidly when he saw that the 
three were readying hand weapons. Not only couldn’t 
he have countered all three of them, he had no idea 
what a couple of the lethal-looking devices did. 

“This little one isn’t worth the trouble,” a calm 
voice said. Luke looked up, startled. He hadn’t 
heard Kenobi come up alongside him. “Come, let 
me buy you all something . . .” 

By way of reply the bulky monster chittered 
hideously and swung out a massive limb. It caught 
an unprepared Luke across the temple and sent him 
spinning across the room, crashing through tables and 
shattering a large jug filled with a foul-smelling lig- 
uid. 

The crowd edged back farther, a few grunts and 
warning snorts coming from some of them as the 
drunken monstrosity pulled a wicked-looking pistol 
from its service pouch. He started to wave it in 
Kenobi’s direction. 

That spurred the heretofore neutral bartender to 
life. He came charging clumsily around the end of the 
bar, waving his hands frantically but still taking 
care to stay out of range. 

“No blasters, no blasters! Not in my place!” 

The rodent thing chattered threateningly at him, 
while the weapon-wielding many-eye spared him a 
warning grunt. 

In the split second when the gun and its owner’s 


STAR WARS 99 


attention was off him, the old man’s hand had 
moved to the disk slung at his side. The short human 
started to yell as a fiery blue-white light appeared in 
the dimness of the cantina. 

He never finished the yell. It turned into a blink. 
When the blink was finished, the man found himself 
lying prone against the bar, moaning and whimpering 
as he stared at the stump of an arm. 

In between the start of his yell and the conclusion 
of the blink, the rodent-thing had been cleft cleanly 
in half down the middle, its two halves falling in op- 
posite directions. The giant multiocular creature still 
stood staring, dazed, at the old human who was 
poised motionless before it, the shining lightsaber held 
over his head in a peculiar fashion. The creature’s 
chrome pistol fired once, blowing a hole in the door. 
Then the torso peeled away as neatly as had the body 
of the rodent, its two cauterized sections falling in 
opposite directions to lie motionless on the cool stone. 

Only then did the suggestion of a sigh escape from 
Kenobi; only then did his body appear to relax. Bring- 
ing the lightsaber down, he flipped it carefully upward 
in a reflex saluting motion which ended with the de- 
activated weapon resting innocuously on his hip. 

That final movement broke the total quiet which 
had enshrouded the room. Conversation resumed, as 
did the movement of bodies in chairs, the scraping of 
mugs and pitchers and other drinking devices on 
tabletops. The bartender and several assistants ap- 
peared to drag the unsightly corpses out of the room, 
while the mutilated human vanished wordlessly into 
the crowd, cradling the stump of his gun arm and 
counting himself fortunate. 

To all appearances the cantina had returned to its 
former state, with one small exception. Ben Kenobi 
was given a respectful amount of space at the bar. 

Luke barely heard the renewed conversation. He 
was still shaken by the speed of the fight and by the 
old man’s unimagined abilities. As his mind cleared 
and he moved to rejoin Kenobi, he could overhear bits 


100 STAR WARS 


and snatches of the talk around him. Much of it 
centered on admiration for the cleanness and 
finality of the fight. 

“You’re hurt, Luke,” Kenobi observed solicitously. 

Luke felt of the bruise where the big creature had 
struck him. “I...” he started to say, but old Ben cut 
him off. As if nothing had happened, he indicated 
the great hairy mass which was shouldering its way 
through the crowd toward them. 

“This is Chewbacca,” he explained when the an- 
thropoid had joined them at the bar. “He’s first mate 
on a ship that might suit our needs, He’ll take us to 
her captain-owner now.” 

“This way,” the Wookie grunted—at least, it 
sounded something like that to Luke. In any case, the 
huge creature’s follow-me gesture was unmistakable. 
They started to wend their way deeper into the bar, 
the Wookie parting the crowd like a gravel storm cut- 
ting canyonettes. 


Out in front of the cantina, Threepio paced nerv- 
ously next to the landspeeder. Apparently uncon- 
cerned, Artoo Detoo was engaged in animated elec- 
tronic conversation with a bright red R-2 unit be 
longing to another of the cantina’s patrons. 

“What could be taking them so long? They went to 
hire one ship—not a fleet.” 

Abruptly Threepio paused, beckoning silently for 
Artoo to be quiet. Two Imperial troopers had ap- 
peared on the scene. They were met by an unkempt 
human who had emerged almost simultaneously from 
the depths of the cantina. 

“I do not like the looks of this,” the tall ’droid 
murmured, 


Luke had appropriated someone else’s drink from 
a waiter’s tray as they made their way to the rear of 
the cantina. He gulped at it with the giddy air of 
one who feels himself under divine protection. That 


STAR WARS 101 


safe he was not, but in the company of Kenobi and 
the giant Wookie he began to feel confident that no 
one in the bar would assault him with so much as a 
dirty look, 

In a rear booth they encountered a sharp-featured 
young man perhaps five years older than Luke, per- 
haps a dozen—it was difficult to tell. He displayed the 
openness of the utterly confident—or the insanely 
reckless. At their approach the man sent the humanoid 
wench who had been wriggling on his lap on her way 
with a whispered something which left a wide, if in- 
human, grin on her face. 

The Wookie Chewbacca rumbled something at the 
man, and he nodded in response, glancing up at the 
newcomers pleasantly. 

“You're pretty handy with that saber, old man. Not 
often does one see that kind of swordplay in this part 
of the Empire anymore.” He downed a prodigious 
portion of whatever filled his mug. “I’m Han Solo, 
captain of the Millennium Falcon.” Suddenly he be- 
came all business. “Chewie tells me you're looking for 
passage to the Alderaan system?” 

“That’s right, son. If it’s on a fast ship,” Kenobi 
told him. Solo didn’t bridle at the “son.” 

“Fast ship? You mean you've never heard of the 
Millennium Falcon?” 

Kenobi appeared amused. “Should I?” 

“It’s the ship that made the Kessel run in less than 
twelve standard timeparts!” Solo told him indignantly. 
“I’ve outrun Imperial starships and Corellian cruisers. 
I think she’s fast enough for you, old man.” His out- 
rage subsided rapidly. “‘What’s your cargo?” 

“Only passengers. Myself, the boy, and two ’droids 
—no questions asked.” 

“No questions.” Solo regarded his mug, finally 
looked up. “Is it local trouble?” 

“Let’s just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial en- 
tanglements,” Kenobi replied easily. 

“These days that can be a real trick. It'll cost you 
a little extra.” He did some mental figuring. “All in 


102 STAR WARS 


all, about ten thousand. In advance.” He added with 
a smile, “And no questions asked.” 

Luke gaped at the pilot. “Ten thousand! We could 
almost buy our own ship for that.” 

Solo shrugged. “Maybe you could and maybe you 
couldn’t. In any case, could you fly it?” 

“You bet I could,” Luke shot back, rising. “I’m 
not such a bad pilot myself. I don’t—” 

Again the firm hand on his arm. “We haven’t that 
much with us,” Kenobi explained. “But we could pay 
you two thousand now, plus another fifteen when we 
reach Alderaan.” 

Solo leaned forward uncertainly. “fifteen . . You 
can really get your hands on that kind of money?” 

“I promise it—from the government on Alderaan 
itself. At the worst, you’ll have earned an honest fee: 
two thousand.” 

But Solo seemed not to hear the last. “Seventeen 
thousand . . . All right, I'll chance it. You’ve got your- 
selves a ship. As for avoiding Imperial entanglements, 
you'd better twist out of here or even the Millennium 
Falcon won't be any help to you.” He nodded to- 
ward the cantina entrance, and added quickly, “Dock- 
ing bay ninety-four, first thing in the morning.” 

Four Imperial troopers, their eyes darting rapidly 
from table to booth to bar, had entered the cantina. 
There was muttering from among the crowd, but 
whenever the eyes of one of the heavily armed 
troopers went hunting for the mutterers, the words 
died with sullen speed. 

Moving to the bar, the officer in charge asked 
the bartender a couple of brief questions. The big man 
hesitated a moment, then pointed toward a place near 
the back of the room. As he did so, his eyes widened 
slightly. Those of the officer were unreadable. 

The booth he was pointing to was empty. 


LUKE and Ben were securing Artoo Detoo in the back 
of the speeder while Threepio kept a lookout for any 
additional troops. 

“If Solo’s ship is as fast as his boasting, we should 
be all right,” the old man observed with satisfaction. 

“But two thousand—and fifteen more when we 
reach Alderaan!” 

“Tt’s not the fifteen that worries me; it’s the first 
two,” Kenobi explained. “I’m afraid you'll have to 
sell your speeder.” 

Luke let his gaze rove over the landspeeder, but 
the thrill it had once given him was gone—gone along 
with other things best not dwelt on. 

. “It’s all right,” he assured Kenobi listlessly. “I don’t 
think Pll need it again.” 


From their vantage point in another booth, Solo 
and Chewbacca watched as the Imperials strode 
through the bar. Two of them gave the Corellian a 
lingering glance. Chewbacca growled once and the two 
soldiers hurried their pace somewhat. 

Solo grinned sardonically, turning to his partner. 
“Chewie, this charter could save our necks. Seventeen 
thousand!” He shook his head in amazement. “Those 
two must really be desperate. I wonder what they’re 
wanted for. But I agreed, no questions. They’re pay- 
ing enough for it. Let’s get going—the Falcon won't 
check itself out.” 

“Going somewhere, Solo?” 

The Corellian couldn’t identify the voice, coming 
as it did through an electronic translator, But there 
was no problem recognizing the speaker or the gun 
it held stuck in Solo’s side. 


104 STAR WARS 


The creature was roughly man-sized and bipedal, 
but its head was something out of delirium by way of 
an upset stomach. It had huge, dull-faceted eyes, bul- 
bous on a pea-green face. A ridge of short spines 
crested the high skull, while nostrils and mouth were 
contained in a tapirlike snout. 

“As a matter of fact,” Solo replied slowly,” “I was 
just on my way to see your boss. You can tell Jabba 
I’ve got the money I owe him.” 

“That’s what you said yesterday—and last week— 
and the week prior to that. It’s too late, Solo. I’m not 
going back to Jabba with another one of your stories.” 

“But I’ve really got the money this time!” Solo 
protested. 

“Fine. I'll take it now, please.” 

Solo sat down slowly. Jabba’s minions were apt to 
be cursed with nervous trigger fingers. The alien took 
the seat across from him, the muzzle of the ugly little 
pistol never straying from Solo’s chest. 

“T haven’t got it here with me. Tell Jabba—” 

“Tt’s too late, I think. Jabba would rather have your 
ship.” 

“Over my dead body,” Solo said unamiably. 

The alien was not impressed. “If you insist. Will 
you come outside with me, or must I finish it here?” 

“J don’t think they’d like another killing in here,” 
Solo pointed out. 

Something which might have been a laugh came 
from the creature’s translator. “They'd hardly no- 
tice. Get up, Solo. I’ve been looking forward to this 
for a long time. You’ve embarrassed me in front of 
Jabba with your pious excuses for the last time.” 

“T think you’re right.” 

Light and noise filled the little corner of the can- 
tina, and when: it had faded, all that remained of 
the unctuous alien was a smoking, slimy spot on the 
stone floor. 

Solo brought his hand and the smoking weapon it 
held out from beneath the table, drawing bemused 
stares from several of the cantina’s patrons and cluck- 


STAR WARS 105 


ing sounds from its more knowledgeable ones. They 
had known the creature had committed its fatal mis- 
take in allowing Solo the chance to get his hands 
under cover. 

“It'll take a lot more than the likes of you to finish 
me off. Jabba the Hut always did skimp when it came 
to hiring his hands.” 

Leaving the booth, Solo flipped the bartender a 
handful of coins as he and Chewbacca moved off. 
“Sorry for the mess. I always was a rotten host.” 


Heavily armed troopers hurried down the natrow 
alleyway, glowering from time to time at the darkly 
clad beings who hawked exotic goods from dingy little 
stalls. Here in Mos Eisley’s inner regions the walls 
were high and narrow, turning the passageway into a 
tunnel. 

No one stared angrily back at them; no one 
shouted imprecations or mouthed obscenities. These 
armored figures moved with the authority of the Em- 
pire, their sidearms boldly displayed and activated. 
All around, men, not-men, and mechanicals were 
crouched in waste-littered doorways. Among accumu- 
lations of garbage and filth they exchanged informa- 
tion and concluded transactions of dubious legality. 

A hot wind moaned down the alleyway and the 
troopers closed their formation. Their precision and 
order masked a fear of such claustrophobic quarters. 

One paused to check a door, only to discover it 
tightly locked and bolted. A sand-encrusted human 
shambling nearby visited a half-mad harangue on the 
trooper. Shrugging inwardly, the soldier gave the 
crazy human a sour eye before moving on down the 
alley to join up again with his fellows. 

As soon as they were well past, the door slid 
open a crack and a metallic face peered out. Below 
Threepio’s leg, a squat barrel shape struggled for a 
view. 

“I would rather have gone with Master Luke than 
stay here with you. Still, orders are orders. I don’t 


106 STAR WARS 


quite know what all the trouble is about, but ['m 
sure it must be your fault.” 

Artoo responded with a near impossibility: a snig- 
gering beep. 

“You watch your language,” the taller machine 
warned. 

The number of old landspeeders and other powered 
transports in the dusty lot which were still capable of 
motion could be counted on the fingers of one hand. 
But that was not the concern of Luke and Ben as they 
stood bargaining with the tall, slightly insectoid owner. 
They were here not to buy, but to sell. 

None of the passersby favored the hagglers with 
so much as a curious glance. Similar transactions 
which were the business of no one but the transactors 
took place half a thousand times daily in Mos Eisley. 

Eventually there were no more pleas or threats to 
be exchanged. As though doling out vials of bis own 
blood, the owner finalized the sale by passing a num- 
ber of small metal shapes to Luke. Luke and the 
insectoid traded formal good-byes and then they 
parted, each convinced he had gotten the better of 
the deal. 

“He says it’s the best he can do, Since the XP-38 
came out, they just aren’t in demand anymore,” Luke 
sighed. 

“Don’t look so discouraged,” Kenobi chided him. 
“What you’ve obtained will be sufficient. I’ve enough 
to cover the rest.” 

Leaving the main street, they turned down an 
alleyway and walked past a small robot herding along 
a clutch of creatures resembling attenuated anteaters. 
As they rounded the corner Luke strained for a for- 
lor glimpse of the old landspeeder—his last link with 
his former life. Then there was no more time for look- 
ing back. 

Something short and dark that might have been 
human undermeath all its wrappings stepped out of 
the shadows as they moved away from the comer. It 


STAR WARS 107 


continued staring after them as they disappeared down 
a bend in the walkway. 


The docking-bay entrance to the small saucer- 
shaped spacecraft was completely ringed by half a 
dozen men and aliens, of which the former were by 
half the most grotesque. A great mobile tub of 
muscle and suet topped by a shaggy scarred skull 
surveyed the semicircle of armed assassins with sat- 
isfaction. Moving forward from the center of the 
crescent, he shouted toward the ship. 

“Come on out, Solo! We’ve got you surrounded.” 

“Tf so, you’re facing the wrong way,” came a calm 
voice. 

Jabba the Hut jumped—in itself a remarkable 
sight. His lackeys likewise whirled—to see Han Solo 
and Chewbacca standing behind them. 

“You see, I’ve been waiting for you, Jabba.” 

“I expected you would be,” the Hut admitted, at 
once pleased and alarmed by the fact that neither 
Solo nor the big Wookie appeared to be armed. 

“T’m not the type to run,” Solo said. 

“Run? Run from what?” Jabba countered. The 
absence of visible weapons bothered Jabba more than 
he cared to admit to himself. There was something, 
peculiar here, and it would be better to make no hasty 
moves until he discovered what was amiss. 

“Han, my boy, there are times when you disappoint 
me. I merely wish to know why you haven’t paid me 

. as you should have long ago. And why did you 
have to fry poor Greedo like that? After all you and I 
have been through together.” 

Solo grinned tightly. “Shove it, Jabba. There isn’t 
enough sentiment in your body to warm an orphaned 
bacterium. As for Greedo, you sent him to kill me.” 

“Why, Han,” Jabba protested in surprise, “why 
would I do that? You’re the best smuggler in the busi- 
ness. You're too valuable to fry. Greedo was only re- 
laying my natural concern at your delays. He wasn’t 
going to kill you.” 


108 STAR WARS 


“TI think he thought he was. Next time don’t send 
one of those hired twerps. If you’ve got something to 
say, come see me yourself.” 

Jabba shook his head and his jowls shook—lazy, 
fleshy echoes of his mock sorrow. “Han, Han—if 
only you hadn’t had to dump that shipment of spicel 
You understand . . . I just can’t make an exception, 
Where would I be if every pilot who smuggled for me 
dumped his shipment at the first sign of an Imperial 
warship? And then simply showed empty pockets 
when I demanded recompense? It’s not good business. 
I can be generous and forgiving—but not to the point 
of bankruptcy.” 

“You know, even I get boarded sometimes, Jabba. 
Did you think I dumped that spice because I got tired 
of its smell? I wanted to deliver it as much as you 
wanted to receive it. I had no choice.” Again the 
sardonic smile. “As you say, I’m too valuable to fry. 
But I’ve got .a charter now and I can pay you back, 
plus a little extra. I just need some more time. I can 
give you a thousand on account, the rest in three 
weeks.” 

The gross form seemed to consider, then directed 
his next words not to Solo but to his hirelings. “Put 
your blasters away.” His gaze and a predatory smile 
turned to the wary Corellian. 

“Han, my boy, I’m only doing this because you're 
the best and I'll need you again sometime. So, out of 
the greatness of my soul and a forgiving heart—and 
for an extra, say, twenty percent—I’ll give you a little 
more time.” The voice nearly cracked with restraint. 
“But this is the last time. If you disappoint me again, 
if you trample my generosity in your mocking laugh- 
ter, Pl put a price on your head so large you won’t be 
able to go near a civilized system for the rest of your 
life, because on every one your name and face will 
be known to men who'll gladly cut your guts out for 
one-tenth of what I'll promise them.” 

“I’m glad we both have my best interests at heart,” 
replied Solo pleasantly as he and Chewbacca started 


STAR WARS 109 


past the staring eyes of the Hut’s hired guns, “Don’t 
worry, Jabba, Til pay you. But not because you 
threaten me. I'll pay you because . . . it’s my pleas- 
ure.” 


“They're starting to search the spaceport central,” 
the Commander declared, having to alternately run a 
couple of steps and then walk to keep pace with the 
long strides of Darth Vader. The Dark Lord was deep 
in thought as he strode down one of the battle station’s 
main corridors, trailed by several aides. 

“The reports are just starting to come in,” the Com- 
Mander went on. “It’s only a matter of time before we 
have those ’droids.” 

“Send in more men if you have to. Never mind the 
protests of the planetary Governor—I must have 
those ‘droids. It’s her hope of that data being used 
against us that is the pillar of her resistance to the 
mind probes.” 

“I understand, Lord Vader. Until then we must 
waste our time with Governor Tarkin’s foolish plan 
to break her.” 


“There’s docking bay ninety-four,” Luke told 
Kenobi and the robots who had rejoined them, “and 
there’s Chewbacca. He seems excited about some- 
thing.” 

Indeed, the big Wookie was waving over the heads 
of the crowd and jabbering loudly in their direction. 
Speeding their pace, none of the foursome noticed the 
small, dark-clad thing that had followed them from 
the transporter lot. 

The creature moved into the doorway and pulled a 
tiny transmitter from a pouch concealed by its multi- 
fold robes. The transmitter looked far too new and 
moder to be in the grasp of so decrepit a specimen, 
yet its manipulator was speaking into it with steady 
assurance. 

Docking bay ninety-four, Luke noted, was no dif- 
ferent in appearance from a host of other grandiosely 


110 STAR WARS 


named docking bays scattered throughout Mos Eisley. 
It consisted mostly of an entrance rampway and 
an enormous pit gouged from the rocky soil. This 
served as clearance radii for the effects of the simple 
antigrav drive which boosted all spacecraft clear of 
the gravitational field of the planet. 

The mathematics of spacedrive were simple enough 
even to Luke. Antigrav could operate only when there 
was a sufficient gravity well to push against—like that 
of a planet—whereas supralight travel could only take 
place when a ship was clear of that same gravity. 
Hence the necessity for the dual-drive system on 
any extrasystem craft. 

The pit -which formed docking bay ninety-four was 
as shabbily cut and run-down as the majority of Mos 
Eisley. Its sloping sides were crumbling in places in- 
stead of being smoothly fashioned as they were on 
more populous worlds. Luke felt it formed the perfect 
setting for the spacecraft Chewbacca was leading them 
toward. 

That battered ellipsoid which could only loosely 
be labeled a ship appeared to have been pieced to- 
gether out of old hull fragments and components dis- 
carded as unusable by other craft. The wonder of it, 
Luke mused, was that the thing actually held its 
shape. Trying to picture this vehicle as spaceworthy 
would have caused him to collapse in hysteria—were 
the situation not so serious. But to think of traveling 
to Alderaan in this pathetic... 

“What a piece of junk,” he finally murmured, un- 
able to hide his feelings any longer. They were walk- 
ing up the rampway toward the open port. “This thing 
couldn't possibly make it into hyperspace.” 

Kenobi didn’t comment, but merely gestured toward 
the port, where a figure was coming to meet them. 

Either Solo had supernaturally acute hearing, or 
else he was used to the reaction the sight of the 
Millennium Falcon produced in prospective passen- 
gers. “She may not look like much,” he confessed 
as he approached them, “but she’s all go. I’ve added 


STAR WARS I11 


a few unique modifications to her myself. In addition 
to piloting, I like to tinker. She’ll make point five fac- 
tors beyond lightspeed.” ; 

Luke scratched his head as he tried to reassess the 
craft in view of its owner’s claims. Either the 
Corellian was the biggest liar this side of the galactic 
center, or there was more to this vessel than met the 
eye. Luke thought back once more to old Ben’s ad- 
monition never to trust surface impressions, and 
decided to reserve judgment on the ship and its pilot 
until after he had watched them in operation. 

Chewbacca had lingered behind at the docking-bay 
entrance. Now he rushed up the ramp, a hairy 
whirlwind, and blabbered excitedly at Solo. The pilot 
regarded him coolly, nodding from time to time, then 
barked a brief reply. The Wookie charged into the 
ship, pausing only to urge everyone to follow. 

“We seem to be a bit rushed,” Solo explained 
cryptically, “so if you'll hurry aboard, we'll be off.” 

Luke was about to venture some questions, but 
Kenobi was already prodding him up the ramp. The 
*droids followed. 

Inside, Luke was slightly startled to see the bulky 
Chewbacca squirm and fight his way into a pilot’s 
chair which, despite modifications, was still over- 
whelmed by his massive form. The Wookie flipped 
several tiny switches with digits seemingly too big for 
the task. Those great paws drifted with surprising 
grace over the controls. 

A deep throbbing started somewhere within the ship 
as the engines were activated. Luke and Ben began 
strapping themselves into the vacant seats in the main 
passageway. 


Outside the docking-bay entrance a long, leathery 
snout protruded from dark folds of cloth, and some- 
where in the depths to either side of that imposing 
proboscis, eyes stared intently. They turned, along 
with the rest of the head, as a squad of eight Imperial 
troops rushed up. Perhaps not surprisingly, they 


112 STAR WARS 


headed straight for the enigmatic figure who whispered 
something to the lead trooper and gestured ta the 
docking bay. 

The information must have been provocative. Ac- 
tivating their weapons and raising them to firing 
position, the: troops charged en masse down the 
docking-bay entrance. 


A glint of light on moving metal caught Solo’s eyes 
as the unwelcome outlines of the first troops showed 
themselves. Solo thought it unlikely they would pause 
to engage in casual conversation. His suspicion was 
confirmed before he could open his mouth to protest 
their intrusion, as several dropped to their knees and 
opened fire on him. Solo ducked back inside, turning 
to yell forward. 

“Chewie—deflector shields, quick! Get us out of 
here!” 

A throaty roar of acknowledgment came back to 
him 


Drawing his own pistol, Solo managed to snap off 
a couple of bursts from the comparative safety of 
the hatchway. Seeing that their quarry was neither 
helpless nor comatose, the exposed troops dove for 
cover. 

The low throbbing rose to a whine, then to a deaf- 
ening howl as Solo’s hand came down on the quick- 
telease button. Immediately the overhead hatchcover 
slammed shut. ; 

As the retreating troops raced out of the docking- 
bay entrance, the ground was trembling steadily. They 
tan smack into a second squad, which had just arrived 
in response to the rapidly spreading emergency call. 
One of the soldiers, gesticulating wildly, tried to ex- 
plain to the newly arrived ranking officer what had 
happened back in the bay. 

As soon as the panting trooper had finished, the 
officer whipped out a compact communicator and 
shouted into it, “Flight deck . . . they’re trying to 
escapel Send everything you’ve got after this ship.” 


STAR WARS 113 


All across Mos Eisley, alarms began to sound, 
spreading out from docking bay ninety-four in con- 
centric circles of concern. 

Several soldiers scouring one alleyway reacted to 
the citywide alarm at the same time as they saw the 
small freighter lift gracefully into the clear blue sky 
above Mos Eisley. It shrank to a pinpoint before 
any of them thought to bring a weapon to bear. 


Luke and Ben were already undoing their accel- 
eration straps as Solo walked past them, moving to- 
ward the cockpit with the easy, loose-limbed stride of 
the experienced spacer. Once forward, he fell rather 
than sat in the pilot’s seat and immediately began 
checking readouts and gauges. In the seat next to 
him Chewbacca was growling and grunting like a 
poorly tuned speeder engine. He tured from studying 
his own instruments long enough to jab a massive fin- 
ger at the tracking screen. 

Solo gave it a quick glance, then turned irritably 
to his own panel. “I know, I know . . . looks like 
two, maybe three destroyers. Somebody certainly dis- 
likes our passengers. Sure picked ourselves a hot one 
this time. Try to bold them off somehow until I can 
finish the programming for the supralight jump. Angle 
the deflectors for maximum shielding.” 

With those instructions he ceased conversing with 
the huge Wookie as his hands flew over the computer 
input terminals. Solo did not even turn around when a 
small cylindrical shape appeared in the doorway 
behind him. Artoo Detoo beeped a few remarks, then 
scurried away. 

Rear scanners showed the baleful lemon eye of 
Tatooine shrinking rapidly behind them, It wasn’t rapid 
enough to eliminate the three points of light that in- 
dicated the presence of the pursuing Imperial war- 
ships. 

Although Solo had ignored Artoo, he tumed to 
acknowledge the entrance of his human passengers. 
“We've got two more coming in from different angles,” 


114. STAR WARS 


he told them, scrutinizing the remorseless instrumen- 
tation. “They’re going to try to box up before we can 
jump. Five ships . . . What did you two do to attract 
that kind of company?” 

“Can’t you outrun them?” Luke asked sarcastically, 
ignoring the pilot’s question. “I thought you said this 
thing was fast.” 

“Watch your mouth, kid, or you'll find yourself 
floating home. There’s too many of ’em, for one thing, 
But, we'll be safe enough once we’ve made the jump 
into hyperspace.” He grinned knowingly. “Can’t no- 
body track another ship accurately at supralight 
speeds. Plus, I know a few tricks that ought to lose 
any persistent stick-tights. I wish I’d known you boys 
were so popular.” 

“Why?” Luke said challengingly. “Would you have 
refused to take us?” 

“Not necessarily,” the Corellian replied, refusing 
to be baited. “But I sure’s hell would’ve boosted 
your fare.” 

Luke had a retort poised on his lips. It was wiped 
out as he threw.up his arms to ward off a brilliant red 
flash which gave black space outside the viewport the 
temporary aspect of the surface of a sun. Kenobi, 
Solo, and even Chewbacca did likewise, since the 
proximity of the explosion nearly overrode the 
phototropic shielding. 

“Here’s where the situation gets interesting,” Solo 
muttered. 

“How long before you can make the jump?” Kenobi 
inquired easily, apparently unconcerned that at any 
second they all might cease to exist. 

“We're still within the gravitational influence of 
Tatooine,” came the cool response. “It will be a few 
minutes yet before the navigation computer can 
compensate and effect an accurate jump. I could over- 
ride its decision, but the hyperdrive would likely 
shred itself. That would give me a nice hold full of 
scrap metal in addition to you four.” 


STAR WARS 115 


‘““A few minutes,” Luke blurted, staring at the 
screens. “At the rate they’re gaining...” 

“Traveling through hyperspace isn’t like dusting 
crops, boy. Ever tried calculating a hyperspace jump?” 
Luke had to shake his head. “It’s no mean trick. Be 
nice if we rushed it and passed right through a star 
or some other friendly spatial phenom like a black 
hole. That would end our trip real quick.” 

Fresh explosions continued to flare close by despite 
Chewbacca’s best efforts at evasion. On Solo’s console 
a red warning light began to flash for attention. 

“What’s that?” Luke wondered nervously. 

“We're losing a deflector shield,” Solo informed him 
with the air of a man about to have a tooth pulled. 
“Better strap yourselves back in. We’re almost ready 
to make the jump. It could get bad if we take a near- 
burst at the wrong moment.” 

Back in the main hold area Threepio was already 
locked tightly into his seat by metal arms stronger 
than any acceleration straps. Artoo swayed back and 
forth under the concussion produced by increasingly 
powerful energy bursts against the ship’s deflectors. 

“Was this trip really necessary?” the tall robot mut- 
tered in desperation. “I’d forgotten how much I hate 
space travel.” He broke off as Luke and Ben 
appeared and began strapping themselves back into 
their chairs. 

Oddly, Luke was thinking of a dog he had once 
owned when an immensely powerful something 
wrenched at the ship’s hull with the strength of a 
fallen angel. 


Admiral Motti entered the quiet conference room, 
his face streaked by the linear lights lining the walls. 
His gaze went to the spot where Governor Tarkin 
stood before the curved viewscreen, and he bowed 
slightly. Despite the evidence of the small green gem 
of a world entered in the screen, he formally an- 
nounced, “We have entered the Alderaan system. 
We await your order.” 


116 STAR WARS 


The door signaled and Tarkin made a falsely gen- 
tle gesture to the admiral. “Wait a moment yet, 
Motti.” 

The door slid aside and Leia Organa entered, 
flanked by two armed guards, followed by Darth 
Vader. 

“T am—,” Tarkin began. 

“JT know who you are,” she spat, “Governor 
Tarkin. I should have expected to find you holding 
Vader’s leash. I thought I recognized your unique 
stench when I was first brought on board.” 

“Charming to the last,” Tarkin declared in a fash- 
ion which suggested he was anything but charmed. 
“You don’t know how hard I found it to sign the order 
for your termination.” His expression changed to one 
of mock sorrow. “Of course, had you cooperated in 
our investigation, things might be otherwise. Lord 
Vader has informed me that your resistance to our 
traditional methods of inquiry— 

“Torture, you mean,” she countered a trifle shakily. 

“Let us not bandy semantics,” Tarkin smiled. 

“Ym surprised you had the courage to take the 
responsibility for issuing the order on yourself.” 

Tarkin sighed reluctantly. “I am a dedicated man, 
and the pleasures I reserve for myself are few. One 
of them is that before your execution I should like you 
to be my guest at a small ceremony. It will certify 
this battle station’s operational status while at the same 
time ushering in a new era of Imperial technical su- 
premacy. This station is the final link in the new- 
forged Imperial chain which will bind the million 
systems of the galactic Empire together once and for 
all. Your petty Alliance will no longer be of any con- 
cem to us. After today’s demonstration no one will 
dare to oppose Imperial decree, not even the Senate.” 

Organa looked at him with contempt. “Force will 
not keep the Empire together. Force has never kept 
anything together for very long. The more you tighten 
your grip, the more systems will slip through your fin- 


STAR WARS 117 


gers. You’re a foolish man, Governor. Foolish men 
often choke to death on their own delusions.” 

Tarkin smiled a death’s-head smile, his face a 
parchment skull’s. “It will be interesting to see what 
manner of passing Lord Vader has in mind for you. I 
am certain it will be worthy of you—and of him. 

“But before you leave us, we must demonstrate the 
power of this station once and for all, in a conclusive 
fashion. In a way, you have determined the choice of 
subject for this demonstration. Since you have proven 
teluctant to supply us with the location of the rebel 
stronghold, I have deemed it appropriate to select as 
an alternate subject your home planet of Alderaan.” 

“No! You can’t! Alderaan is a peaceful world, with 
no standing armies, You can’t...” 

Tarkin’s eyes gleamed, “You would prefer another 
target? A military target, perhaps? We're agreeable 

. name the system.” He shrugged elaborately. “I 
grow tired of such games. For the last time, where is 
the main rebel base?” 

A voice announced over a hidden speaker that they 
had approached within antigrav range of Alderaan— 
approximately six planetary diameters, That was 
enough to accomplish what all of Vader’s infernal de- 
vices had failed to. 

‘Dantooine,” she whispered, staring at the deck, 
all pretense at defiance gone now. “They’re on 
Dantooine.” 

Tarkin let out a slow sigh of satisfaction, then 
turned to the black figure nearby. “There, you see, 
Lord Vader? She can be reasonable. One needs only 
frame the question properly to elicit the desired re- 
sponse.” He directed his attention to the other officers. 
“After concluding our little test here we shall make 
haste to move on to Dantooine. You may proceed 
with the operation, gentlemen.” 

It took several seconds for Tarkin’s words, so cas- 
ually uttered, to penetrate. “What!” Organa finally 
gasped. 

“Dantooine,” Tarkin explained, examining his fin- 


118 STAR WARS 


gers, “is too far from the centers of Imperial 
population to serve as the subject of an effective dem- 
onstration. You will understand that for reports of 
our power to spread rapidly through the Empire we 
require an obstreperous world more centrally located. 
Have no fear, though. We will deal with your rebel 
friends on Dantooine as soon as possible.’ 

“But you said. . .” Organa started to protest. 

“The only words which have meaning are the last 
ones spoken,” Tarkin declared cuttingly. “We will 
proceed with the destruction of Alderaan as planned. 
Then you will enjoy watching with us as we obliterate 
the Dantooine center of this stupid and futile rebel- 
lion.” 

He gestured to the two soldiers flanking her. “‘Es- 
cort her to the principal observation level and,” he 
smiled, “make certain she is provided with an un- 
obstructed view.” 

SOLO was busily checking readouts from gauges 
and dials in the hold area. Occasionally he would pass 
a small box across various sensors, study the result, 
and cluck with pleasure. 

“You can stop worrying about your Imperial 
friends,” he told Luke and Ben. “They'll never be 
able to track us now. Told you I'd lose them.” 

Kenobi might have nodded briefly in response, but 
he was engaged in explaining something to Luke. 

“Don’t everybody thank me at once,” Solo grunted, 
slightly miffed. “Anyway, navigation computer .calcu- 
lates our arrival in Alderaan orbit at oh-two-hundred. 
Tm afraid after this little adventure Til have to forge 
a new registration.” 

He returned to his checking, passing in front of a 


STAR WARS 119 


small circular table. The top was covered with small 
squares lit from beneath, while computer monitors 
were set into each side. Tiny three-dimensional figures 
were projected above the tabletop from various 
squares. 

Chewbacca sat hunched over one side of the table, 
his chin resting in massive hands. His great eyes 
glowing and facial whiskers wrinkled upward, he 
gave every sign of being well pleased with himself. 

At least, he did until Artoo Detoo reached up with 
a stubby clawed limb across from him and tapped 
his own computer monitor. One of the figures walked 
abruptly across the board to a new square and 
stopped there. 

An expression of puzzlement, then anger crossed 
the Wookie’s face as he studied the new configura- 
tion. Glaring up and over the table, he vented a 
stream of abusive gibberish on the inoffensive ma- 
chine. Artoo could only beep in reply, but Threepio 
soon interceded on behalf of his less eloquent com- 
panion and began arguing with the hulking anthropoid. 

“He executed a fair move. Screaming about it won't 
help you.” 

Attracted by the commotion, Solo looked back over 
his shoulder, frowning slightly. “Let him have it. Your 
friend’s way ahead anyhow. It’s not wise to upset a 
Wookie.” 

“TI can sympathize with that opinion, sir,” Threepio 
countered,“but there is principle at stake here. There 
are certain standards any sentient creature must hold 
to. If one compromises them for any reason, including 
intimidation, then one is abrogating his right to be 
called intelligent.” 

“I hope you'll both remember that,” Solo advised 
him, “when Chewbacca is pulling the arms off you and 
your little friend.” 

“Besides that, however,” Threepio continued with- 
out missing a beat, “being greedy or taking advantage. 
of someone in a weakened position is a clear sign of 
poor sportsmanship.” 


120 STAR WARS 


That elicited a beep of outrage from Artoo, and 
the two robots were soon engaged in violent elec- 
tronic argument while Chewbacca continued jabber- 
ing at each in turn, occasionally waving at them 
though the translucent pieces waiting patiently on the 
board. 

Oblivious to the altercation, Luke stood frozen in 
the middle of the hold. He held an activated light- 
saber in position over his head, A low hum came from 
the ancient instrument while Luke lunged and parried 
under Ben Kenobi’s instructive gaze. As Solo glanted 
from time to time at Luke’s awkward movements, 
his lean features were sprinkled with smugness. 

“No, Luke, your cuts should flow, not be so 
choppy,” Kenobi instructed gently. “Remember, the 
force is omnipresent. It envelops you as it radiates 
from you. A Jedi warrior can actually feel the force 
as a physical thing.” 

“It is an energy field, then?” Luke inquired. 

“Tt is an energy field and something more,” Kenobi 
went on, almost mystically. “An aura that at once 
controls and obeys. It is a nothingness that can ac- 
complish miracles.” He looked thoughtful for a mo- 
ment. 

“No one, not even the Jedi scientists, were able to 
truly define the force. Possibly no one ever will. 
Sometimes there is as much magic as science in the 
explanations of the force. Yet what is a magician but 
a practicing theorist? Now, let’s try again.” 

The old man was hefting a silvery globe about the 
size of a man’s fist. It was covered with fine antennae, 
some as delicate as those of a moth. He flipped it 
toward Luke and watched as it halted a couple of 
meters away from the boy’s face. 

Luke readied himself as the ball circled him slowly, 
turing to face it as it assumed a new position. 
Abruptly it executed a lightning-swift lunge, only to 
freeze about a meter away. Luke failed to succumb 
to the feint, and the ball soon backed off. 

Moving slowly to one side in an effort to get around 


STAR WARS 121 


the ball’s fore sensors, Luke drew the saber back pre- 
paratory to striking. As he did so the ball darted in 
behind him. A thin pencil of red light jumped from 
one of the antennae to the back of Luke’s thigh, 
knocking him to the deck even as he was bringing his 
saber around—too late. 

Rubbing at his tingling, sleeping leg, Luke tried to 
ignore the burst of accusing laughter from Solo. 
“Hocus-pocus religions and archaic weapons are no 
substitute for a good blaster at your side,” the pilot 
sneered. 

“You don’t believe in the force?” asked Luke, 
struggling back to his feet. The numbing effect of the 
beam wore off quickly. 

“T’ve been from one end of this galaxy to the 
other,” the pilot boasted, ‘and I’ve seen a lot of 
strange things. Too many to believe there couldn’t be 
something like this ‘force.’ Too many to think that 
there could be some such controlling one’s actions. I 
determine my destiny—not some half-mystical energy 
field.” He gestured toward Kenobi. “I wouldn’t follow 
him so blindly, if I were you. He’s a clever old man, 
full of simple tricks and mischief. He might be using 
you for his own ends.” 

Kenobi only smiled gently, then turned back to face 
Luke. “I suggest you try it again, Luke,” he said 
soothingly. “You must try to divorce your actions 
from conscious control. Try not to focus on anything 
concrete, visually or mentally. You must Jet your mind 
drift, drift; only then can you use the force. You have 
to enter a state in which you act on what you sense, 
not on what you think beforehand. You must cease 
cogitation, relax, stop thinking . . . let yourself drift... 
free... free...” 

The old man’s voice had. dropped to a mesmeriz- 
ing buzz. As he finished, the chrome bulb darted at 
Luke. Dazed by Kenobi’s hypnotic tone, Luke didn’t 
see it charge. It’s doubtful he saw much of anything 
with clarity. But as the ball neared, he whirled with 
amazing speed, the saber arcing up and out in a pe- 


122 STAR WARS 


culiar fashion. The red beam that the globe emitted 
was neatly deflected to one side. Its humming stopped 
and the ball bounced to the deck, all animation gone. 

Blinking as if coming awake from a short nap, Luke 
stared in absolute astonishment at the inert remote, 

“You see, you can do it,” Kenobi told him. “One can 
teach only so much. Now you must leam to admit 
the force when you want it, so that you can learn to 
control it consciously.” , 

Moving to one side, Kenobi took a large helmet 
from behind a locker and walked over to Luke. Plac- 
ing the helmet over his head effectively eliminated the 
boy’s vision. 

“I can’t see,” Luke muttered, turning around and 
forcing Kenobi to step back out of range of the dan- 
gerously wavering saber. “How can I fight?” 

“With the force,” old Ben explained. “You didn’t 
really ‘see’ the seeker: when it went for your legs 
the last time, and yet you parried its beam. Try to 
let that sensation flow within you again.” 

“IT can’t do it,” Luke moaned. “Ill get hit again.” 

“Not if you let yourself trust you,” Kenobi insisted. 
none too convincingly for Luke. “This is the only way 
to be certain you’re relying wholly on the force.” . 

Noticing that the skeptical Corellian had turned 
to watch, Kenobi hesitated momentarily. It did Luke 
no good to have the self-assured pilot laugh every 
time a mistake was made. But coddling the boy would 
do him no good either, and there was no time for 
it anyway. Throw him in and hope he floats, Ben in- 
structed himself firmly. 

Bending over the chrome globe, he touched a con- 
trol at its side. Then he tossed it straight up. It arched 
toward Luke. Braking in midfall, the ball plummeted 
stonelike toward the deck. Luke swung the saber at 
it. While it was a commendable try, it wasn’t nearly 
fast enough. Once again the little antenna glowed. 
This time the crimson needle hit Luke square on the 
seat of his pants. Though it wasn’t an incapacitating 


STAR WARS 123 


blow, it felt like one; and Luke Jet out a yelp of pain 
as he spun, trying to strike his invisible tormentor. 

“Relax!” old Ben urged him. “Be free. You’re trying 
to use your eyes and ears. Stop predicting and use the 
Test of your mind.” 

Suddenly the youth stopped, wavering slightly. The 
seeker was still behind him. Changing direction again, 
it made another dive and fired. 

Simultaneously the lightsaber jerked around, as ac- 
curate as it was awkward in its motion, to deflect the 
bolt. This time the ball didn’t fall motionless to the 
deck. Instead it backed up three meters and re- 
mained there, hovering. 

Aware that the drone of the seeker remote no 
longer assaulted his ears, a cautious Luke peeked out 
from under the helmet. Sweat and exhaustion com- 
peted for space on his face. 

“Did I—?” 

“I told you you could,” Kenobi informed him with 
pleasure. “Once you start to trust your inner self 
there'll be no stopping you. I told you there was much 
of your father in you.” 

“Td call it luck,” snorted Solo as he concluded his 
examination of the readouts. 

“In my experience there is no such thing as luck, 
my young friend—only highly favorable adjust- 
ments of multiple factors to incline events in one’s 
favor.” 

“Call it what you like,” the Corellian sniffed in- 
differently, “but good against a mechanical remote 
is one thing. Good against a living menace is 
another.” 

As he was speaking a small telltale light on the far 
side of the hold had begun flashing. Chewbacca no- 
ticed it and called out to him. 

Solo glanced at the board, then informed his pas- 
sengers, “We're coming up on Alderaan, We'll be 
slowing down shortly and going back under lightspeed. 
Come on, Chewie.” 

Rising from the game table, the. Wookie followed 


124 STAR WARS 


his partner toward the cockpit. Luke watched. them 
depart, but his mind wasn’t on. their imminent arrival 
at Alderaan. It was burning with something else, 
something that seemed to grow and mature at the 
back of his brain as he dwelt on it. 

“You know,” he murmured, “I did feel something. 
I could almost ‘see’ the outlines of the remote.” He 
gestured at the hovering device behind him. 

Kenobi’s voice when he replied was solemn. “Luke, 
you’ve taken the first step into a larger universe.” 

Dozens of humming, buzzing instruments lent the 
freighter’s cockpit the air of a busy hive. Solo and 
Chewbacca had their attention locked on the most 
vital of those instruments. 

“Steady . . . stand by, Chewie.” Solo adjusted 
several manual compensators. “Ready to go sublight 
...ready... cut us in, Chewie.” 

The Wookie tumed something on the console be- 
fore him. At the same time Solo pulled back on a 
comparatively large lever, Abruptly the long streaks 
of Doppler-distorted starlight slowed to hyphen 
shapes, then finally to familiar bolts of fire. A gauge 
on the console registered zero. 

Gigantic chunks of glowing stone appeared out of 
the nothingness, barely shunted aside by the ship’s de- 
flectors. The strain caused the Millennium Falcon to 
begin shuddering violently. 

“What the—?” a thoroughly startled Solo muttered. 
Next to him, Chewbacca offered no comment of his 
own as he flipped off several controls and activated 
others, Only the fact that the cautious Solo always 
emerged from supralight travel with his deflectors up 
—just in case any of many unfriendly folks might 
be waiting for him—had saved the freighter from in- 
stant destruction. 

Luke fought to keep his balance as he made his way 
into the cockpit, “What’s going on?” 

“We're back in normal space,” Solo informed him, 
“but we've come out in the middle of the worst as- 
teriod storm I’ve ever seen. It’s not on any of our 


STAR WARS 125 


charts.” He peered hard at several indicators. “Ac- 
cording to the glactic atlas, our position is correct. 
Only one thing is missing: Alderaan.” 

“Missing? But—that’s crazy!” 

“I won't argue with you,” the Corellian replied 
grimly, “but look for yourself.” He gestured out the 
port. “I’ve triple-checked the coordinates, and there’s 
nothing wrong with the nav ‘puter. We ought to be 
standing out one planetary diameter from the surface. 
The planet’s glow should be filling the cockpit, but— 
there’s nothing out there. Nothing but debris.” He 
paused. “Judging from the level of wild energy out- 
side and the amount of solid waste, I'd guess that 
Alderaan’s been , . . blown away. Totally.” 

“Destroyed,” Luke whispered, overwhelmed at the 
specter raised by such an unimaginable disaster. “But 
—how?” 

“The Empire,” a voice declared firmly. Ben Kenobi 
had come in behind Luke, and his attention was 
held by the emptiness ahead as well as the import 
behind it. 

“No.” Solo was shaking his head slowly. In his own 
way even he was stunned by the enomnity of what the 
old man was suggesting. That a human agency had 
been responsible for the annihilation of an entire pop- 
ulation, of a planet itself... 

“No... the entire Imperial fleet couldn’t have done 
this. It would take a thousand ships massing a lot 
more firepower than has ever existed.” 

“I wonder if we should get out of here,” Luke was 
murmuring, trying to see around the rims of the 
port. “If by some chance it was the Empire...” 

“I don’t know what’s happened here,” an angry 
Solo cursed, “but I'll tell you one thing. The Empire 
isn’ _ 

Muffled alarms began humming Joudly as a syn- 
chronous light flashed on the control console. Solo bent 
to the appropriate instrumentation. 

“Another ship,” he announced. “Can’t judge the 


type yet.” 


126 STAR WARS 


“A survivor, maybe—-someone who might know 
what happened,” Luke ventured hopefully. 

Ben Kenobi’s next words shattered more than that 
hope. “That’s an Imperial fighter.” 

Chewbacca suddenly gave an angry bark. A huge 
flower of destruction blossomed outside the port, bat- 
tering the freighter violently. A tiny, double-winged 
ball raced past the cockpit port. 

“It followed us!” Luke shouted. 

“From Tatooine? It couldn’t have,” objected a 
disbelieving Solo. “Not in hyperspace.” 

Kenobi was studying the configuration the track- 
ing screen displayed. “You're quite right, Han, It’s 
the short-range Tie fighter.” 

“But where did it come from?” the Corellian wanted 
to know. “There are no Imperial bases near here. It 
couldn’t have been a Tie job.” 

“You saw it pass.” 

“I know. It looked like a Tie fighter—but what 
about a base?” 

“It’s leaving in a big hurry,” Luke noted, studying 
the tracker. “No matter where it’s going, if it identi- 
fies us we're in big trouble.” 

“Not if I can help it,” Solo declared. “Chewie, jam 
‘its transmission. Lay in a pursuit course.” 

“It would be best to let it go,” Kenobi ventured 
thoughtfully. “It’s already too far out of range.” 

“Not for long.” 

Several minutes followed, during which the cockpit 
was filled with a tense silence. All eyes were on the 
tracking screen and viewport. 

At first the Imperial fighter tried a complex evasive 
course, to no avail. The surprisingly maneuverable 
freighter hung tight on its tail, continuing to make 
up the distance between them. Seeing that he couldn’t 
shake his pursuers, the fighter pilot had obviously 
opened up his tiny engine all the way. 

Ahead, one of the multitude of stars was becoming 
steadily brighter. Luke frowned. They were moving 
fast, but not nearly fast enough for any heavenly ob- 


STAR WARS 127 


ject to brighten so rapidly. Something here didn’t 
make sense. 

“Impossible for a fighter that small to be this deep 
in space on its own,” Solo observed. 

“It must have gotten lost, been part of a convoy 
or something,” Luke hypothesized. 

Solo’s comment was gleeful. “Well, he won’t be 
around long enough to tell anyone about us. We’ll 
be on top of him in a minute or two.” 

. The star ahead continued to brighten, its glow evi- 
dently coming from within. It assumed a circular 
outline. 

“He’s heading for that small moon,” Luke mur- 
mured. - 

“The Empire must have an outpost there,” Solo 
admitted. “Although, according to the atlas, Alderaan 
had no moons.” He shrugged it off. “Galactic 
topography was never one of my best subjects. ’m 
only interested in worlds and moons with customers 
on them. But I think I can get him before he gets 
there; he’s almost in range.” 

They drew steadily nearer. Gradually craters and 
mountains on the moon became visible. Yet there was 
something extremely odd about them. The craters 
were far too regular in outline, the mountains far too 
vertical, canyons and valleys impossibly straight and 
regularized. Nothing as capricious as volcanic action 
had formed those features. ~ 

“That’s no moon,” Kenobi breathed softly. “That’s 
a space station.” 

“But it’s too big to be a space station,” Solo ob- 
jected. “The size of it! It can’t be artifical—it can’t!” 

“T have a very strange feeling about this,” was 
Luke’s comment. 

Abruptly the usually calm Kenobi was shouting. 
“Tum the ship around! Let’s get out of here!” 

“Yes, I think you’re right, old man. Full reverse, 
Chewie.” 

The Wookie started adjusting controls, and the 
freighter seemed to slow, arcing around in a broad 


128 STAR WARS 


curve. The tiny fighter leaped instantly toward the 
monstrous station until it was swallowed up by its 
overpowering bulk. 

Chewbacca chattered something at Solo as the ship 
shook and strained against unseen forces. 

“Lock in auxiliary power!” Solo ordered. 

Gauges began to whine in protest, and by ones 
and twos every instrument on the control console se- 
quentially went berserk. Try as he might, Solo 
couldn’t keep the surface of the gargantuan station 
from looming steadily larger, larger—until it became 
the heavens. 

Luke stared wildly at secondary installations as 
big as mountains, dish antennae larger than all of Mos 
Eisley. “Why are we still moving toward it?” 

“Too late,’ Kenobi whispered softly. A glance at 
Solo confirmed his concern. 

“We're caught in a tractor beam—strongest one I 
ever saw. It’s dragging us in,” the pilot muttered. 

“You mean, there’s nothing you can do?” Luke 
asked, feeling unbelievably helpless. 

Solo studied the overloaded sensor readouts and 
shook his head. “Not against this kind of power. I’m 
on full power myself, kid, and it’s not shifting out 
of course a fraction of a degree. It’s no use. I’m going 
to have to shut down or we'll melt our engines. But 
they’re not going to suck me up like so much dust 
without a fight!” 

He started to vacate the pilot’s chair, but was re- 
strained by an aged yet powerful hand on his shoul- 
der. An expression of concern was on the old man’s 
face—and yet, a suggestion of something somewhat 
less funereal. 

“If it’s a fight you cannot win—well, my boy, there 
are always alternatives to fighting . . .” 

The true size of the battle station became apparent 
as the freighter was pulled closer and closer. Running 
around the station’s equator was an artificial cluster 
of metal mountains, docking ports stretching beckon- 
ing fingers nearly two kilometers above the surface. 


STAR WARS 129 


Now only a miniscule speck against the gray bulk 
of the station, the Millennium Falcon was sucked to- 
ward one of those steel pseudopods and finally swal- 
lowed by it. A lake of metal closed off the entry- 
way, and the freighter vanished as if it had never 
existed. 


Vader. stared at the motley array of stars displayed 
on the conference-room map while Tarkin and Ad- 
miral Motti conferred nearby. Interestingly, the first 
use of the most powerful destructive machine ever 
constructed had seemingly had no influence at all on 
that map, which in itself represented only a tiny frac- 
tion of this section of one modest-sized galaxy. 

It would take a microbreakdown of a portion of 
this map to reveal a slight reduction in spatial mass, 
caused by the disapearance of Alderaan. Alderaan, 
with its many cities, farms, factories, and towns—and 
traitors, Vader reminded himself. 

Despite his advances and intricate technological 
methods of annihilation, the actions of mankind re- 
mained unnoticeable to an uncaring, unimaginably 
vast universe. If Vader’s grandest plans ever came to 
pass, all that would change. 

He was well aware that despite all their intelli- 
gence and drive, the vastness and wonder were lost on 
the two men who continued to chatter monkeylike 
behind him. Tarkin and Motti were talented and am- 
bitious, but they saw things only on the scale of hu- 
man pettiness. It was a pity, Vader thought, that they 
did not possess the scope to match their abilities. 

Still, neither man was a Dark Lord. As such, little 
more could be expected of them. These two were use- 
ful now, and dangerous, but someday they, like 
Alderaan, would have to be swept aside. For now he 
could not afford to ignore them. And while he would 
have preferred the company of equals, he had to 
admit reluctantly that at this point, he had no equals. 

Nonetheless, he turned to them and insinuated him- 
self into their conversation. “The defense systems on 


130 STAR WARS 


Alderaan, despite the Senator’s protestations to the 
contrary, were as strong as any in the Empire. I 
should conclude that our demonstration was as im- 
pressive as it was thorough.” 

Tarkin turned to him, nodding. “The Senate is be- 
ing informed of our action at this very moment. Soon 
we will be able to announce the extermination of the 
Alliance itself, as soon as-we have dealt with their 
main military base. Now that their main source of 
munitions, Alderaan, has been eliminated, the rest 
of those systems with secessionist inclinations will fall 
in line quickly enough, you'll see.” 

Tarkin turned as an Imperial officer entered the 
chamber. “Yes, what is it, Cass?” 

The unlucky officer wore the expression of the 
mouse chosen to bell the cat. “Governor, the advance 
scouts have reached and circumnavigated Dantooine. 
They have found the remains of a rebel base... 
which they estimate has been deserted for some time. 
Years, possibly. They are proceeding with an exten- 
sive survey of the remainder of the system.” 

Tarkin turned apoplectic, his face darkening to a 
fine pomegranate fury. “She lied! She lied to us!” 

No one could see, but it seemed that Vader must 
have smiled behind his mask. “Then we are even in 
the first exchange of ‘truths.’ I told you she would 
never betray the rebellion—unless she thought her 
confession could somehow destroy us in the process.” 

“Terminate her immediately!” The Governor was 
barely able to form words. 

“Calm yourself, Tarkin,” Vader advised him. “You 
would throw away our only link to the real rebel base 
so casually? She can still be of value to us.” 

“Fagh! You just said it yourself, Vader: we'll get 
nothing more out of her. I’ll find that hidden fortress 
if I have to destroy every star system in this sector. 
Vu” 

A quiet yet demanding beep interrupted him. 

“Yes, what is it?” he inquired irritably. 
A voice reported over an unseen speaker. “Sirs, 


STAR WARS 131 


we've captured a small freighter that was entering 
the remains of Alderaan. A standard check indicates 
that its markings apparently match that of the ship 
which blasted its way out of the quarantine at Mos 
Eisley, Tatooine system, and went hyper before the 
Imperial blockade craft there could close on it.” 

Tarkin looked puzzled. “Mos Eisley? Tatooine? 
What is this? What’s this all about, Vader?” 

“It means, Tarkin, that the last of our unresolved 
difficilties is about to be eliminated. Someone appar- 
ently received the missing data tapes, learned who 
transcribed them, and was trying to return them to 
her. We may be able to facilitate their meeting with 
the Senator.” 

Tarkin started to say something, hesitated, then 
nodded in understanding. “How convenient. I leave 
this matter in your hands, Vader.” 

The Dark Lord bowed slightly, a gesture which 
Tarkin acknowledged with a perfunctory salute. Then 
he spun and strode from the room, leaving Motti 
looking from man to man in confusion. 


The freighter sat listlessly in the docking hangar of 
the huge bay. Thirty armed Imperial troopers stood 
before the lowered main ramp leading into the ship. 
They snapped to attention when Vader and a Com- 
mander approached. Vader halted at the base of 
the ramp, studying the vessel as an officer and several 
soldiers came forward. 

“There was no reply to our repeated signals, sir, so 
we activated the ramp from outside. We’ve made no 
contact with anyone aboard either by communicator 
or in person,” the officer reported. 

“Send your men in,” Vader ordered. 

Turning, the officer relayed the command to a 
noncom, who barked orders. A number of the heavily 
armored soldiers made their way up the ramp and 
entered the outer hold. They advanced with appreci- 
able caution. 

Inside, two men covered a third as he advanced. 


132. STAR WARS 


Moving in groups of three in this fashion, they rapidly 
spread through the ship. Corridors rang hollowly under 
metal-shod feet, and doors slid aside willingly as 
they were activated. 

“Empty,” the Sergeant in charge finally declared in 
surprise. “Check the cockpit.” 

Several troopers made their way forward and slid 
the portal aside, only to discover the pilot’s chairs 
as vacant as the rest of the freighter. The controls 
were deactivated and all systems shut down. Only a 
single light on the console winked on and off fitfully. 
The Sergeant moved forward, recognized the source 
of the light, and activated the appropriate controls. A 
printout appeared on a nearby screen. He studied it 
intently, then turned to convey the information to 
his superior, who was waiting by the main hatch. 

That worthy listened carefully before he turned and 
called down to the Commander and Vader. “There 
is no one aboard; the ship is completely deserted, sirs. 
According to the ship’s log, her crew abandoned ship 
immediately after lift-off, then set her on automatics 
for Alderaan.” . 

“Possibly a decoy,” the Commander ventured 
aloud. “Then they should still be on Tatooine!” 

“Possibly,” Vader admitted reluctantly. 

“Several of the escape pods have been jettisoned,” 
the officer went on. 

“Did you find any ’droids on board?” Vader called, 

“No, sir—nothing. If there were any, they must 
have abandoned the ship along with the organic 
crew.” 

Vader hesitated before replying. When he did so, 
uncertainty was evident in his voice. “This doesn’t 
feel right. Send a fully equipped scanning team on 
board. I want every centimeter of that ship checked 
out, See to it as soon as possible.” With that, he 
whirled and stalked from the hangar, pursued by the 
infuriating feeling that he was overlooking something 
of vital importance. 

The rest of the assembled soldiers were dismissed 


STAR WARS 133 


by the officer. On board the freighter, a last lone fig- 
ure left off examining the space beneath the cockpit 
consoles and ran to join his comrades. He was anx- 
ious to be off this ghost ship and back in the com- 
fortable surroundings of the barracks. His heavy 
footsteps echoed through the once more empty 
freighter. 

Below, the muffled sounds of the officer giving 
final orders faded, leaving the interior in complete 
quiet. The quivering of a portion of the floor was the 
only movement on board. 

Abruptly the quivering became a sharp, upheaval. 
Two metal panels popped upward, followed by a pair 
of tousled heads. Han Solo and Luke looked around 
quickly, then managed to relax a little when it be- 
came clear that the ship was as empty as it sounded. 

“Lucky you'd built these compartments,” Luke 
commented. 

Solo was not as cheerily confident. “Where did you 
think I kept smuggled goods—in the main hold? I 
admit I never expected to smuggle myself in them.” 
He started violently at a sudden sound, but it was 
only another of the panels shifting aside. 

“This is ridiculous. It isn’t going to work. Even if 
I could take off and get past the closed hatch”—he 
jabbed a thumb upward—“we’d never get past that 
tractor beam.” 

Another panel opened, revealing the face of an eld- 
erly imp. “You leave that to me.” 

“I was afraid you’d say something like that,” mut- 
tered Solo. “You’re a damn fool, old man.” 

Kenobi grinned at him. “What does that say of the 
man who allows himself to be hired by a fool?” 

Solo muttered something under his breath as they 
pulled themselves clear of the compartments, Chew- 
bacca doing so with a good deal of grunting and twist- 
ing. 

Two technicians had arrived at the base of the 
tamp. They reported to the two bored soldiers guard- 
ing it. 


134. STAR WARS 


“The ship’s all yours,” one of the troopers told 
them. “If the scanners pick up anything, report it 
immediately.” 

The men nodded, then strained to lug their heavy 
equipment up the ramp. As soon as they disappeared 
inside, a loud crash was heard. Both guards whirled, 
then heard a voice call, “Hey, down there, could you 
give us a hand with this?” 

One trooper looked at his companion, who shrugged. 
They both started up the ramp, muttering at the in- 
efficiency of mere technicians. A second crashing 
sound reverberated, but now there was no one left 
to hear it. 

But the absence of the two troopers was noticed, 
soon thereafter. A gantry officer passing the window 
of a small command office near the freighter en- 
trance glanced out, frowning when he saw no sign of 
the guards. Concerned but not alarmed, he moved to 
a comlink and spoke into it as he continued to stare 
at the ship. 

“THX-1138, why aren’t you at your post? THX- 
1138, do you copy?” 

The speaker gave back only static. 

“THX-1138, why don’t you reply?” The officer 
was beginning to panic when an armored figure de- 
scended the ramp and waved toward him. Pointing to 
the portion of his helmet covering his right ear, the 
figure tapped it to indicate the comlink inside wasn’t 
working. 

Shaking his head in disgust, the gantry officer gave 
his busy aide an annoyed look as he made for the 
door. “Take over here. We’ve got another bad trans- 
mitter. I’m going to see what J can do. He activated 
the door, took a step forward -as it slid aside—and 
stumbled backward in a state of shock. 

Filling the door completely was a towering hairy 
form. Chewbacca leaned inward and with a bone- 
splintering howl flattened the benumbed officer with 
one swipe of a pan-sized fist. 

The aide was already on his feet and reaching for 


STAR WARS 135 


his sidearm when a narrow energy beam passed 
completely through him, piercing his heart. Solo 
flipped up the faceplate of his trooper helmet, then 
slid it back into place as he followed the Wookie into 
the. room. Kenobi and the ‘droids squeezed in behind 
him, with Luke, also clad in the armor of a luckless 
Imperial soldier, bringing up the rear. 

Luke was looking around nervously as he shut the 
door behind them. “Between his howling and your 
blasting everything in sight, it’s a wonder the entire 
station doesn’t know we’re here.” 

“Bring °em on,” Solo demanded, unreasonably en- 
thused by their success so far. “I prefer a straight 
fight to all this sneaking around.” 

“Maybe you’re in a hurry to die,” Luke snapped, 
“but I’m not. All this sneaking around has kept us 
alive.” 

The Corellian gave Luke a sour eye but said noth- 

ing. 
They watched as Kenobi operated an incredibly 
complex computer console with the ease and confi- 
dence of one long accustomed to handling intricate 
machinery. A screen lit up promptly with a map of 
sections of the’ battle station. The old man leaned 
forward, scrutinizing the display carefully. 

Meanwhile, Threepio and Artoo had been going 
over an equally complicated control panel nearby. 
Artoo suddenly froze and began whistling wildly at 
something he had found. Solo and Luke, their mo- 
mentary disagreement over tactics forgotten, rushed 
over to where the robots were standing. Chewbacca 
busied himself hanging the gantry officer up by his 
toes. 

“Plug him in,” Kenobi suggested, looking over from 
his place before the larger readout. “He should be 
able to draw information from the entire station net- 
work. Let’s see if he can find out where the tractor- 
beam power unit is located.” 

“Why not just disconnect the beam from here, sir?’ 
Luke wanted to know. 


136 STAR WARS 


It was Solo who replied derisively, “What, and have 
them lock it right back on us before we can get a 
ship’s length outside the docking bay?” 

Luke looked crestfallen. “Oh. I hadn’t thought of 
that.” 

“We have to break the tractor at its power source 
in order to execute a clean escape, Luke,” old Ben 
chided gently as Artoo punched a claw arm into the 
open computer socket he had discovered. Immediately 
a galaxy of lights came to life on the panel in front 
of him and the room was filled with the hum of ma- 
chinery working at high speed. 

Several minutes passed while the little ‘droid 
sucked up information like a metal sponge. Then the 
hum slowed and he turned to beep something back 
at them. 

“He’s found it, sir!” Threepio announced excitedly, 

“The tractor beam is coupled to the main reactors 
at seven locations. Most of the pertinent data is re- 
stricted, but he'll try to pull the critical information 
through to the monitor.” 

Kenobi turned his attention from the larger screen 
to a small readout near Artoo. Data began to race 
across it too fast for Luke to see, but apparently 
Kenobi somehow made something of the schematic 
blur. “I don’t think there’s any way you boys can 
help with this,” he told them. “I must go alone.” 

“That suits me fine,” said Solo readily. “I’ve already 
done more than I bargained for on this trip. But I 
think putting that tractor beam out of commission’s 
going to take more than your magic, old man.” 

Luke wasn’t put off so easily. “I want to go with 

ou.” 

y ‘Don’t be impatient, young Luke. This requires 
skills you haven’t yet mastered. Stay and watch over 
the ’droids and wait for my signal. They must be 
delivered to the rebel forces or many more worlds 
will meet the same fate as Alderaan. Trust in the 
force, Luke—and wait.” 

With a last look at the flow of information on the 


STAR WARS 137 


monitor, Kenobi adjusted the lightsaber at his waist. 
Stepping to the door, he slid it aside, looked once left, 
once right, and, disappeared down a long, glowing 
hallway. 

As soon as he was gone Chewbacca growled and 
Solo nodded agreement. “You said it, Chewie!l” He 
turned to Luke. “Where’d you dig up that old fossil?” 

“Ben Kenobi—General Kenobi—is a great man,” 
Luke protested loftily. 

“Great at getting us into trouble,” Solo snorted. 
“ ‘General,’ my afterburmers! He’s not going to get 
us out of here.” 

“You got any better ideas?” Luke shot back chal- 
lengingly. 

“Anything would be better than just waiting here 
for them to come and pick us up. If we—” 

A hysterical whistling and hooting came from the 
computer console. Luke hurried over to Artoo Detoo. 
The little "droid was all but hopping about on stubby 
legs. 

“What now?” Luke asked Threepio. 

The taller robot looked puzzled himself. “I’m afraid 
I don’t understand either, sir. He says, ‘I found her,’ 
and keeps repeating, ‘She’s here, she’s here!’ ” 

“Who? Who has he found?” 

Artoo turned a flat blinking face toward Luke and 
whistled frantically. 

“Princess Leia,” Threepio announced after listening 
carefully, “Senator Organa—they seem to be one and 
the same. I believe she may be the person in the 
message he was carrying.” 

That three-dimensional portrait of indescribable 
beauty coalesced in Luke’s mind again, “The Prin- 
cess? She’s here?” 

Attracted by the commotion, Solo wandered over. 
“Princess? What’s going on?” 

“Where? Where is she?” Luke demanded breath- 
lessly, ignoring Solo completely. 

Artoo whistled on while Threepio translated. “Level 


138 STAR WARS 


five, detention block AA-23. According to the infor- 
mation, she is scheduled for slow termination.” 

“No! We’ve got to do something.” 

“What are you three blabbering about?” an exas- 
perated Solo demanded. 

“She’s the one who programmed the message into 
Artoo Detoo,” Luke explained hurriedly, “the one we 
were trying to deliver to Alderaan. We’ve got to help 
her.” 

“Now, just a minute,” Solo cautioned him. “This is 
going awful fast for me. Don’t get any funny ideas. 
When I said I didn’t have any ‘better ideas’ I meant 
it. The old man said to wait here. I don’t like it, but 
I’m not going off on some crazy maze through this 
place.” 

“But Ben didn’t know she was here,” Luke half 
pleaded, half argued. “I’m sure that if he knew he 
would have changed his plans.” Anxiety turned to 
thoughtfulness. “Now, if we could just figure a way to 
get into that detention block . . .” 

Solo shook his head and stepped back. “Huh-uh— 
Tm not going into any Imperial detention blocks.” 

“If we don’t do something, they’re going to execute 
her. A minute ago you said you didn’t just want to sit 
here and wait to be captured, Now all you want to do 
is stay. Which is it, Han?” 

The Corellian looked troubled—and confused. 
“Marching into a detention area’s not what I had in 
mind. We're likely to end up there anyway—why 
rush it?” 

“But they’re going to execute her!” 

“Better her than me.” 

“Where’s your sense of chivalry, Han?” 

Solo considered. “Near as I can recall, I traded it 
for a ten-carat chrysopaz and three bottles of good 
brandy about five years ago on Commenor.” 

“T’ve seen her,” Luke persisted desperately. “She’s 
beautiful.” 

“So’s life.” 

“She’s a rich and powerful Senator,” Luke pressed, 


STAR WARS 139 


hoping an appeal to Solo’s baser instincts might be 
more effective. “If we could save her, the reward 
could be substantial.” 

“Uh... rich?” Then Solo looked disdainful. “Wait 
a minute .. . Reward, from whom? From the govern- 
ment on Alderaan?” He made a sweeping gesture 
toward the hangar and by implication the space where 
Alderaan had once orbited. 

Luke thought furiously. “If she’s being held here 
and is scheduled to be executed, that means she must 
be dangerous in some way to whoever destroyed 
Alderaan, to whoever had this station built. You can 
bet it had something to do with the Empire instituting 
a reign of full repression. 

“TI tell you who'll pay for her rescue, and for the 
information she holds. The Senate, the rebel Alli- 
ance, and every concern that did business with 
Alderaan. She could be the sole surviving heir of the 
off-world wealth of the entire system! The reward 
could be more wealth than you can imagine.” 

“I don’t know . . . I can imagine quite a bit.” He 
glanced at Chewbacca, who grunted a terse reply. Solo 
shrugged back at the big Wookie. “All right, we'll 
give it a try. But you'd better be right about that re- 
ward. What’s your plan, kid?” 

Luke was momentarily taken aback. Af! his energies 
up till now had been concentrated on persuading 
Solo and Chewbacca to aid in a rescue attempt. That 
accomplished, Luke became aware he had no idea 
how to proceed. He had grown used to old Ben 
and Solo giving directions. Now the next move was up 
to him. 

His eyes were caught by several metal circlets 
dangling from the belt of Solo’s armor. “Give me 
those binders and tell Chewbacca to come over here.” 

Solo handed Luke the thin but quite unbreakable 
cuffs and relayed the request to Chewbacca. The 
Wookie lumbered over and stood waiting next to 
Luke. 

“Now, I’m going to put these on you,” Luke be- 


140 STAR WARS 


gan, starting to move behind the Wookie with the 
cuffs, “and—” 

Chewbacca made a sound low in his throat, and 
Luke jumped in spite of himself, “Now,” he began 
again, “Han is going to put these on you and... .” 
He sheepishly handed the binders to Solo, uncom- 
fortably aware of the enormous anthropoid’s glowing 
eyes on him. 

Solo sounded amused as he moved forward. “Don’t 
worry, Chewie. I think I know what he has in mind.” 

The cuffs barely fit around the thick wrists, Despite 
his partner’s seeming confidence in the plan, the 
Wookie wore a worried, frightened look as the 
testraints were activated. 

“Luke, sir.” Luke looked over at Threepio. “Par- 
don me for asking, but, ah—what should Artoo and 
I do if someone discovers us here in your absence?” 

“Hope they don’t have blasters,” Solo replied. 

Threepio’s tone indicated he didn’t find the answer 
humorous. “That isn’t very reassuring.” 

Solo and Luke were too engrossed in their coming 
expedition to pay much attention to the worried ro- 
bot. They adjusted their helmets. Then, with Chew- 
bacca wearing a half-reat downcast expression, they 
started off along the corridor where Ben Kenobi had 
disappeared, 

AS they traveled farther and deeper into the bowels 
of the gigantic station, they found it increasingly dif- 
ficult to maintain an air of casual indifference. 
Fortunately, those who might have sensed some nerv- 
ousness on the part of the two armored troopers 
would regard it as only natural, considering their 
huge, dangerous Wookie captive. Chewbacca also 


STAR WARS 141 


made it impossible for the two young men to be as 
inconspicuous as they would have liked. 

The farther they traveled, the heavier the traffic 
became. Other soldiers, bureaucrats, technicians, and 
mechanicals bustled around them. Intent on their own 
assignments, they ignored the trio completely, only a 
few of the humans sparing the Wookie a curious 
glance. Chewbacca’s morose expression and the seem- 
ing confidence of his captors reassured the in- 
quisitive. 

Eventually they reached a wide bank of elevators. 
Luke breathed a sigh of relief. The computer- 
controlled transport ought to be capable of taking 
them just about anywhere on the station in response 
to a verbal command. 

There was a nervous second when a minor official 
raced to get aboard. Solo gestured sharply, and the 
other, without voicing a protest, shifted to the next 
elevator tube in line. 

Luke studied the operating panel, then tried to 
sound at once knowledgeable and important as he 
spoke into the pickup grid. Instead, he sounded nerv- 
ous and scared, but the elevator was a pure-response 
mechanism, not programmed to differentiate the ap- 
propriateness of emotions conveyed vocally. So the 
door slid shut and they were on their way. After what 
felt like hours but was in reality only minutes, the 
door opened and they stepped out into the security 
area, 

It had been Luke’s hope they would discover some- 
thing like the old-fashioned barred cells of the kind 
used on Tatooine in towns like Mos Eisley. Instead, 
they saw only narrow ramps bordering a bottom- 
less ventilation shaft. These walkways, several levels 
of them, ran parallel to smooth curving walls which 
held faceless detention cells. Alert-looking guards and 
energy gates seemed to be everywhere they looked. 

Uncomfortably aware that the longer they stood 

frozen in place, the sooner someone was bound to 


142 STAR WARS 


come over and ask unanswerable questions, Luke 
searched frantically for a course of action. 

“This isn’t going to work,” Solo whispered, leaning 
toward him. 

“Why didn’t you say so before?” a frustrated, 
frightened Luke shot back, 

“T think I did, I—” 

“Shssh!” 

Solo shut up as Luke’s worst fears were realized. 
A tall, grim-looking officer approached them. He 
frowned as he examined the silent Chewbacca. 

“Where are you two going with this—thing?” 

Chewbacca snarled at the remark, and Solo quieted 
him with a hasty jab in the ribs. A panicky Luke 
found himself replying almost instinctively. “Prisoner 
transfer from block TS-138.” 

The officer looked puzzled. “I wasn’t notified. PU 
have to clear it.” 

Tuming, the man walked to a small console nearby 
and began entering his request. Luke and Han hur- 
riedly surveyed the situation, their gaze traveling from 
alarms, energy gates, and remote photosensors to the 
three other guards stationed in the area. 

Solo nodded to Luke as he unfastened Chewbacca’s 
cuffs. Then he whispered something to the Wookie. 
An ear-splitting howl shook the corridor as Chew- 
bacca threw up both hands, grabbing Solo’s rifle from 
him. 


“Look out!” a seemingly terrified Solo shouted. 
“It’s loose. It'll rip us all apart!” 

Both he and Luke had darted clear of the ram- 
paging Wookie, pulled out their pistols, and were 
blasting away at him. Their reaction was. excellent, 
their enthusiasm undeniable, and their aim execrable. 
Not a single shot came close to the dodging Wookie. 
Instead, they blasted automatic cameras, energy-rate 
controls, and the three dumbfounded guards. 

At this point it occurred to the officer in charge 
that the abominable aim of the two soldiers was a bit 
too selectively efficient. He was preparing to jab the 


STAR WARS 143 


general alarm when a burst from Luke’s pistol caught 
him in the midsection and he fell without a word to 
the gray deck. 

Solo rushed to the open comlink speaker, which 
was screeching anxious questions about what was go- 
ing on. Apparently there were audio as well as visual 
links between this detention station and elsewhere. 

Ignoring the barrage of alternate threats and quer- 
ies, he checked the readout set in the panel nearby. 
“We've got to find out which cell this Princess of 
yours is in. There must be a dozen levels and— Here 
it is. Cell 2187. Go on—Chewie and Pil bold them 
here.” 

Luke nodded once and was racing down the narrow 
walkway. 

After gesturing for the Wookie to take up a position 
where he could cover the elevators, Solo took a deep 
breath and responded to the unceasing calls from the 
comlink. 

“Everything’s under control,” he said into the pick- 
up, sounding reasonably official. “Situation normal.” 

“It didn’t sound like that,” a voice snapped back in 
a no-nonsense tone. ‘What happened?” 

“Uh, well, one of the guards experienced a weapon 
malfunction,” Solo stammered, his temporary official- 
ese lapsing into nervousness. “No problem now—we’re 
all fine, thanks. How about you?” 

“We're sending a squad up,” the voice announced 
suddenly. 

Han could almost smell the suspicion at the other 
end. What to say? He spoke more eloquently with 
the business end of a pistol. 

“Negative—negative. We have an energy leak. Give 
us a few minutes to lock it down. Large leak—very 
dangerous.” 

“Weapon malfunction, energy leak . . . Who is this? 
What’s your operating—?” 

Pointing his pistol at the panels, Solo blew the in- 
strumentation to silent scraps. “It was a dumb con- 
versation anyway,” he murmured. Turning, he shouted 


144 STAR WARS 


down the corridor, “Hurry it up, Luke! We're going 
to have company.” 

Luke heard, but he was absorbed in running from 
one cell to the next and studying the numbers glow- 
ing above each doorway, The cell 2187, it appeared, 
did not exist. But it did, and he found it just as he was 
about to give up and try the next level down. 

For a long moment he examined the featureless con- 
vex metal wall. Turning his pistol to maximum and 
hoping it wouldn’t melt in his hand before it broke 
through, he opened fire on the door. When the 
weapon became too hot to hold, he tossed it from 
hand to hand. As he did so the smoke had time to 
clear, and he saw with some surprise that the door 
had been blown away. 

Peering through the smoke with an uncomprehend- 
ing look on her face was the young woman whose 
portrait Artoo Detoo had projected in a garage on 
Tatooine several centuries ago, or so it seemed. 

She was even more beautiful than her image, Luke 
decided, staring dazedly at her. “You’re even—more 
beautiful—than I—” 

Her look of confusion and uncertainty was replaced 
by first puzzlement and then impatience. “Aren’t you 
a little short for a storm trooper?” she finally com- 
mented. 

“What? Oh—the uniform.” He removed the helmet, 
regaining a little composure at the same time. “I’ve 
come to rescue you. I’m Luke Skywalker.” 

“T beg your pardon?” she said politely. 

“I said, I’ve come to rescue you. Ben Kenobi is 
with me. We've got your two ’droids—” 

The uncertainty was instantly replaced by hope at 
the mention of the oldster’s name. “Ben Kenobi!” She 
looked around Luke, ignoring him as she searched for 
the Jedi. “Where is he? Obi-wan!” 


Governor Tarkin watched as Darth Vader paced 
rapidly back and forth in the otherwise empty con- 
ference room. Finally the Dark Lord paused, glancing 


STAR WARS 145 


around as though a great bell only he could hear had 
rung somewhere close by. 

“He is here,” Vader stated unemotionally. 

Tarkin looked startled. ““Obi-wan Kenobi! That’s im- 
possible. What makes you think so?” 

“A stirring in the force, of a kind I’ve felt only in 
the presence of my old master. It is unmistakable.” 

“Surely—surely he must be dead by now.” 

Vader hesitated, his assurance suddenly gone. “Per- 
haps . . . It is gone now. It was only a brief sensa- 
tion.” 

“The Jedi are extinct,” declared Tarkin positively. 
“Their fire was quenched decades ago. You, my friend, 
are all that’s left of their ways.” 

A comlink buzzed softly for attention. “Yes?” Tarkin 
acknowledged. . 

“We have an emergency alert in detention block 
AA-23.” 

“The Princess!” Tarkin yelped, jumping to his feet. 
Vader whirled, trying to stare through the walls. 

“I knew it—Obi-wan is here. I knew I could not mis- 
take a stirring in the force of such power.” 

“Put all sections on alert,” Tarkin ordered through 
the comlink. Then he turned to stare at Vader. “If 
you're right, he must not be allowed to escape.” 

“Escape may not be Obi-wan Kenobi’s intention,” 
Vader replied, struggling to control his emotions. “He 
is the last of the Jedi—and the greatest. The danger 
he presents to us must not be underestimated—yet 
only I can deal with him.” His head snapped around 
to stare fixedly at Tarkin. “Alone.” 


Luke and Leia had started back up the corridor 
when a series of blinding explosions ripped the walk- 
way ahead of them, Several troopers had tried coming 
through the elevator, only to be crisped one after an- 
other by Chewbacca. Disdaining the elevators, they. 
had blasted a gaping hole through a wall. The opening 
was too large for Solo and the Wookie to cover com- 


146 STAR WARS 


pletely. In twos and threes, the Imperials were work- 
ing their way into the detention block. 

Retreating down the walkway, Han and Chewbacca 
encountered Luke and the Princess. “We can’t go back 
that way!” Solo told them, his face flushed with ex- 
citement and worry. 

“No, it looks like you’ve managed to cut off our 
only escape route,” Leia agreed readily. “This is a de- 
tention area, you know. They don’t build them with 
multiple exits.” 

Breathing heavily, Solo turned to look her up and 
down. “Begging your forgiveness, Your Highness,” 
he said sarcastically, “but maybe you’d prefer it back 
in your cell?” She looked away, her face impassive. 

“There’s got to be another way out,” Luke mut- 
tered, pulling a small transmitter unit from his belt 
and carefully adjusting the frequency: “See Three- 
pio... See Threepiol”’ 

A familiar voice responded with gratifying speed. 
“Yes, sit?” 

“We've been cut off here. Are there any other ways 
out of the detention area—anything at all?” 

Static crackled over the tiny grid as Solo and Chew- 
bacca kept the Imperial troops bottled up at the other 
end of the walkway. 

“What was that ...? I didn’t copy.” 

Back in the gantry office Artoo Detoo beeped and 
whistled frantically as Threepio adjusted controls, fight- 
ing to clear the awkward transmission. “TI said, all sys- 
tems have been alerted to your presence, sir. The 
main entry seems to be the only way in or out of the 
cell block.” He pressed instruments, and the view 
on the nearby readouts changed steadily. “All other 
information on your section is restricted.” 

Someone began banging on the locked door to the 
office—evenly at first and then, when no response was 
forthcoming from within, more insistently. 

“Oh, no!” Threepio groaned. 

The smoke in the cell corridor was now so intense 
that it was difficult for Solo and Chewbacca to pick 


STAR WARS 147 


their targets. That was fortunate inasmuch as they 
were now badly outnumbered and the smoke con- 
fused the Imperials’ fire with equal thoroughness. 

Every so often one of the soldiers would attempt 
to move closer, only to stand exposed as he pene- 
trated the smoke. Under the accurate fire of the two 
smugglers, he would rapidly join the accumulating 
mass of motionless figures on the rampway flooring. 

Energy bolts continued to ricochet wildly through 
the block as Luke moved close to Solo. 

““There isn’t any other way out.” he yelled over 
the deafening roar of concentrated fire. 

“Well, they’re closing in on us. What do we do 
now?” 

“This is some rescue,” an irritated voice complained 
from behind them, Both men turned to see a thor- 
oughly disgusted Princess eyeing them with regal 
disapproval. “When you came in here, didn’t you have 
a plan for getting out?” 

Solo nodded toward Luke. “He’s the brains, sweet- 
heart.” 

Luke managed an embarrassed grin and shrugged 
helplessly. He turned to help return fire, but before 
he could do so, the Princess had snatched the pistol 
from his hand, 

“Hey!” 

Luke stared as she moved along the wall, finally 
locating a small grate nearby. She pointed the pistol 
at it and fired. 

Solo gazed at her in disbelief. “What do you think 
you're doing?” 

“It looks like it’s up to me to save our skins. Get 
into that garbage chute, flyboy!” 

While the others looked on in amazement, she 
jumped feet first into the opening and disappeared. 
Chewbacca rumbled threateningly, but Solo slowly 
shook his head. 

“No, Chewie, I don’t want you to rip her apart. 
[Im not sure about her yet. Either I’m beginning to 
like her, or I’m going to kill her myself.” The Wookie 


148 STAR WARS 


snorted something else, and Solo yelled back at him, 
“Go on in, you furry oaf! I don’t care what you smell. 
This is no time to go dainty on me.” 

Shoving the reluctant Wookie toward the tiny open- 
ing, Solo helped jam the massive bulk through. As 
soon as he disappeared, the Corellian followed him 
in. Luke fired off a last series of blasts, more in the 
hope of creating a covering smoke than hitting any- 
thing, slid into the chute, and was gone. 

Not wanting to incur further losses in such a con- 
fined space, the pursuing soldiers had momentarily 
halted to await the arrival of reinforcements and heav- 
ier weapons. Besides, they had their quarry trapped, 
and despite their dedication, none of them were anx- 
ious to die needlessly. 

The chamber Luke tumbled into was dimly lit. 
Not that the light was needed to discem its contents. 
He smelled the decay long before he was dumped 
into it. Unadorned except for the concealed ilumi- 
nants, the garbage room was at least a quarter full of 
slimy muck, much of which had already achieved a 
state of decomposition sufficient to wrinkle Luke’s 
nose. 

Solo was stumbling around the edge of the room, 
slipping and sinking up to his knees in the uncertain 
footing in an attempt to locate an exit. All he found 
was a small, thick hatchway which he grunted and 
heaved to pry open. The hatchcover refused to budge. 

“The garbage chute was a wonderful idea,” he told 
the Princess sardonically, wiping the sweat from his 
forehead. “What an incredible smell you’ve discov- 
ered. Unfortunately, we can’t ride out of here on a 
drifting odor, and there doesn’t seem to be any other 
exit. Unless I can get this hatch open.” 

Stepping back, he pulled his pistol and fired at the 
cover. The bolt promptly went howling around the 
room as everyone sought cover in the garbage. A last 
glance and the bolt detonated almost on top of them. 

Looking less dignified by the moment, Leia was 
the first to emerge from the pungent cover. “Put that 


STAR WARS 149 


thing away,” she told Solo grimly, “or you’re going to 
get us all killed.” 

“Yes, Your Worship,” Solo muttered in snide sup- 
plication. He made no move to reholster his weapon 
as he glanced back up toward the open chute above. 
“It won’t take long for them to figure out what hap- 
pened to us. We had things well under control—until 
you led us down here.” 

“Sure you did,” she shot back, brushing refuse 
from her hair and shoulders. “Oh, well, it could be 
worse. ...” 

As if in reply, a piercing, horrible moaning filled 
the room. It seemed to come from somewhere be- 
neath them. Chewbacca let out a terrified yowl of his 
own and tried to flatten himself against a wall. Luke 
drew his own pistol and peered hard at various clumps 
of debris, but saw nothing. 

“What was that?” Solo asked. 

“I’m not too sure.” Luke suddenly jumped, looking 
down and behind him. “Something just moved past 
me, I think. Watch out—” 

With shocking suddenness Luke disappeared 
straight down into the garbage. 

“It’s got Luke!” the Princess shouted. “It took him 
under!” Solo looked around frantically for something 
to shoot at. 

As abruptly as he had vanished, Luke reappeared 
—and so did part of something else. A thick whit- 
ish tentacle was wrapped tight around his throat. 

“Shoot it, kill it!’ Luke screamed. 

“Shoot it! I can’t even see it,” Solo protested. 

Once again Luke was sucked under by whatever 
that gruesome appendage was attached to. Solo stared 
helplessly around the multicolored surface. 

There was a distant rumble of heavy machinery, and 
two opposing walls of the chamber moved inward 
several centimeters. The rumble ceased and then it 
was quiet again. Luke appeared unexpectedly close 
to Solo, scrabbling his way clear of the suffocating 
mess and rubbing at the welt on his neck, 


150 STAR WARS 


“What happened to it?” Leia wondered, eyeing 
the quiescent garbage warily. 

Luke looked genuinely puzzled. “I don’t know. It 
had me—and then I was free. It just let me go and 
disappeared. Maybe I didn’t smell bad enough for it.” 

“I’ve got a very bad feeling about this,” Solo mur- 
mured. 

Again the distant rumble filled the room; again the 
walls began their inward march. Only this time neither 
sound nor movement showed any sign of stopping. 

“Don’t just stand there gaping at each other!” the 
Princess urged them. “Try to brace them with some- 
thing.” 

Even with the thick poles and old metal beams 
Chawbacca could handle, they were unable to find 
anything capable of slowing the walls’ advance. It 
seemed as if the stronger the object was that they 
placed against the walls, the easier it was snapped. 

Luke pulled out his comlink, simultaneously trying 
to talk and will the walls to retreat. “Threepio .. . 
come in, Threepio!” A decent pause produced no re- 
sponse, causing Luke to look worriedly at his com- 
panions. 

“I don’t know why he doesn’t answer.” He tried 
again. “See Threepio, come in. Do you read?” 


“See Threepio,” the muted voice continued to call, 
“come in, See Threepio.” It was Luke’s voice and it 
issued softly in between buzzings from the small hand 
comlink resting on the deserted computer console. 
Save for the intermittent pleading, the gantry office 
was silent. . 

A tremendous explosion drowned out the muffled 
pleadings. It blew the office door clean across the 
room, sending metal fragments flying in all directions. 
Several of them struck the comlink, sending it flying 
to the floor and cutting off Luke’s voice in mid- 
transmission. 

In the wake of the minor cataclysm four armed and 
ready troopers entered through the blown portal. In- 


STAR WARS 151 


itial study indicated the office was deserted—until a 
dim, frightened voice was heard coming from one of 
the tall supply cabinets near the back of the room. 

“Help, help! Let us out!” 

Several of the troopers bent to inspect the immo- 
bile bodies of the gantry officer and his aide while 
others opened the noisy cabinet. Two robots, one tall 
and humanoid, the other purely mechanical and three- 
legged, stepped out into the office. The taller one 
gave the impression of being half unbalanced with 
fear. 

“They’re madmen, I tell you, madmen!” He ges- 
tured urgently toward the doorway. “I think they said 
something about heading for the prison level. They 
just left. If you hurry, you might catch them. That 
way, that way!” 

Two of the troopers inside joined those waiting in 
the hallway in hustling off down the corridor. That 
left two guards to watch over the office. They totally 
ignored the robots as they discussed what might 
have taken place. 

“All the excitement has overloaded the circuitry in 
my companion here,” Threepio explained carefully. 
“If you don’t mind, Pd like to take him down to 
Maintenance.” 

“Hmmm?” One of the guards looked up indiffer- 
ently and nodded to the robot. Threepio and Artoo 
hurried out the door without looking back. As they 
departed it occurred to the guard that the taller of 
the two ’droids was of a type he had never seen be- 
fore. He shrugged. That was not surprising on a sta- 
tion of this size. 

“That was too close,” Threepio muttered as they 
scurried down an empty corridor. “Now we'll have to 
find another information-control console and plug you 
back in, or everything is lost.” 


The garbage chamber grew remorselessly smaller, 
the smoothly fitting metal walls moving toward one 
another with stolid precision. Larger pieces of refuse 


152. STAR WARS 


performed a concerto of snapping and popping that 
was rising toward a final shuddering crescendo. 

Chewbacca whined pitifully as he fought with all 
his incredible strength and weight to hold back one 
of the walls, looking like a hirsute Tantalus approach- 
ing his final summit. 

“One thing’s for sure,” Solo noted unhappily. “We're 
all going to be much thinner. This could prove popu- 
lar for slimming. The only trouble is its permanence.” 

Luke paused for breath, shaking the innocent com- 
link angrily. “What could have happened to Three- 
pio?” 

“Try the hatch again,” advised Leia. “It’s our only 
hope.” 

Solo shielded his eyes and did so. The ineffectual 
blast echoed mockingly through the narrowing cham- 
ber. ; 


The service bay was unoccupied, everyone appar- 
ently having been drawn away by the commotion 
elsewhere. After a cautious survey of the room Three- 
pio beckoned for Artoo to follow. Together they 
commenced a hurried search of the many service 
panels. Artoo let out a beep, and Threepio rushed to 
him, He waited impatiently as the smaller unit 
plugged the receptive arm carefully into the open 
socket. 

A superfast flurry of electronics spewed in undis- 
ciplined fashion from the grid of the little *droid. 
Threepio made cautioning motions. 

“Wait a minute, slow down!” The sounds dropped 
to a crawl. “That's better. They’re where? They what? 
Oh, no! They'll only come out of there as a liquid!” 


Less than a meter of life was left to the trapped 
occupants of the garbage room. Leia and Solo had been 
forced to turn sideways, had ended up facing each 
other. For the first time the haughtiness was gone 
from the Princess’s face. Reaching out, she took Solo’s 


STAR WARS = 153 


hand, clutching it convulsively as she felt the first 
touch of the closing walls. 

Luke had fallen and was lying on his side, fighting 
to keep his head above the rising ooze, He nearly 
choked on a mouthful of compressed sludge when his 
comlink began buzzing for attention. 

“Threepio!” 

“Are you there, sir?” the ’droid replied. ““We’ve had 
some minor problems. You would not believe—” 

“Shut up, Threepio!” Luke screamed into the unit. 
“And shut down all the refuse units on the detention 
level or immediately below it. Do you copy? Shut 
down the refuse—” 

Moments later Threepio grabbed at his head in pain 
as a terrific screeching and yelling sounded over the 
comlink. 

“No, shut them all down!” he implored Artoo. 
“Hurry! Oh, listen to them—they’re dying, Artoo! I 
curse this metal body of mine. I was not fast enough. 
It was my fault. My poor master—all of them... 
no, no, nol” 

The screaming and yelling, however, continued far 
beyond what seemed like a reasonable interval. In 
fact, they were shouts of relief. The chamber walls 
had reversed direction automatically with Artoo’s 
shutdown and were moving apart again. 

“Artoo, Threepio,” Luke hollered into the com- 
link, “it’s all right, we’re all right! Do you read me? 
We're okay—you did just fine.” 

Brushing distastefully at the clinging slime, he 
made his way as rapidly as possible toward the hatch- 
cover. Bending, he scraped accumulated detritus away, 
noting the number thus revealed. 

“Open the pressure-maintenance hatch on unit 366- 
117891.” 

“Yes, sir,” came Threepio’s acknowledgment. 

They may have been the happiest words Luke had 
ever heard. 


LINED with power cables and circuitry conduits that 
tose from the depths and vanished into the heavens, 
the service trench appeared to be hundreds of kilo- 
meters deep. The narrow catwalk running around one 
side looked like a starched thread glued on a glowing 
ocean. It was barely wide enough for one man to trav- 
erse. 

One man edged his way along that treacherous walk- 
way now, his gaze intent on something ahead of him 
instead of the awesome metal abyss below. The clack- 
ing sounds of enormous switching devices resounded 
like captive leviathans in the vast open space, tireless 
and never sleeping. 

Two thick cables joined beneath an overlay panel. 
It was locked, but after careful inspection of sides, 
top and bottom, Ben Kenobi pressed the panel cover 
in a particular fashion causing it to spring aside. A 
blinking computer terminal was revealed beneath. 

With equal care he performed several adjustments 
to the terminal. His actions were rewarded when sev- 
eral indicator lights on the board changed from red 
to blue. 

Without warning, a secondary door close behind 
him opened. Hurriedly reclosing the panel cover, the 
old man slipped deeper into the shadows. A detach- 
ment of troopers had appeared in the portal, and the 
officer in charge moved to within a couple of meters 
of the motionless, hidden figure. 

“Secure this area until the alert has been cancelled.” 

As they began to disperse, Kenobi became one 
with the dark. 


Chewbacca grunted and wheezed, and barely suc- 
ceeded in forcing his thick torso through the hatch- 


STAR WARS = 155 


way opening with Luke’s and Solo’s help. That ac- 
complished, Luke turned to take stock of their sur- 
roundings. 

The hallway they had emerged into showed dust on 
the floor. It gave the impression of not having been 
used since the station had been built. Probably it was 
only a repair access corridor. He had no idea where 
they were. 

Something hit the wall behind them with a massive 
thunk, and Luke yelled for everyone to watch out as 
a long, gelatinous limb worked its way through the 
hatch and flailed hopefully about in the open corridor. 
Solo aimed his pistol at it as Leia tried to slip past the 
half-paralyzed Chewbacca. 

“Somebody get this big hairy walking carpet out of 
my way.” Suddenly she noticed what Solo was pre- 
paring to do. “No, wait! It’ll be heard!” 

Solo ignored her and fired at the hatchway. The 
burst of energy was rewarded with a distant roar as 
an avalanche of weakened wall and beaming all but 
buried the creature in the chamber beyond. 

Magnified by the narrow corridor, the sounds con- 
tinued to roll and echo for long minutes afterward. 
Luke shook his head in disgust, realizing that some- 
one like Solo who spoke with the mouth of a gun 
might not always act sensibly. Until now he had 
sort of looked up to the Corellian. But the senseless 
gesture of firing at the hatchway brought them, for 
the first time in Luke’s mind, to the same level. 

The Princess’s actions were more surprising than 
Solo’s, however. “Listen,” she began, staring up at 
him, “I don’t know where you came from, but I’m 
grateful.” Almost as an afterthought she glanced back 
at Luke, adding, “To the both of you.” Her attention 
turned back to Solo. “But from now on you do as I 
tell you.” 

Solo gaped at her. This time the smug smile 
wouldn’t come. “Look, Your Holiness,” he was finally 
able to stammer, “et’s get something straight. I take 
orders only from one person—me.” 


156 STAR WARS 


“It’s a wonder you're still alive,” she shot back 
smoothly. A quick look down the corridor and she had 
started determinedly off in the other direction. 

Solo looked at Luke, started to say something, then 
hesitated and simply shook his head slowly. “No re- 
ward is worth this. I don’t know if there’s enough 
credit in the universe to pay for putting up with her 
...« Hey, slow down!” 

Leia had started around a bend in the corridor, and 
they ran swiftly to catch up with her. 


The half dozen troops milling around the entrance 
to the power trench were more interested in discuss- 
ing the peculiar disturbance in the detention block 
than in paying attention to their present boring duty. 
So engrossed were they in speculation as to the cause 
of the trouble that they failed to notice the fey wraith 
behind them. It moved from shadow to shadow like 
a night-stalking ferret, freezing when one of the troop- 
ers seemed to turn slightly in its direction, moving on 
again as if walking on air. 

Several minutes later one of the troopers frowned 
inside his armor, turning to where he thought he had 
sensed a movement near the opening to the main 
passageway. There was nothing but an undefinable 
something which the ghost-like Kenobi had left be- 
hind. Acutely uncomfortable yet understandably un- 
willing to confess to hallucinations, the trooper turned 
back to the more prosaic conversation of his fellows. 


Someone finally discovered the two unconscious 
guards tied in the service lockers on board the cap- 
tured freighter. Both men remained comatose despite 
all efforts to revive them. 

Under the direction of several bickering officers, 
troopers carried their two armorless comrades down 
the ramp and toward the nearest hospital bay. On the 
way they passed two forms hidden by a small opened 
service panel. Threepio and Artoo went unnoticed, 
despite their proximity to the hangar. 


STAR WARS 157 


As soon as the troops had passed, Artoo finished 
removing a socket cover and hurriedly shoved his 
sensor arm into the opening. Lights commenced a 
wild flashing on his face and smoke started issuing 
from several seams in the small ’droid before a frantic 
Threepio could pull the arm free. 

Immediately the smoke vanished, the undisciplined 
blinking faded to normalcy. Artoo emitted a few 
wilted beeps, successfully giving the impression of a 
human who had expected a glass of mild wine and 
instead unwittingly downed several gulps of some- 
thing 180 proof. 

“Well, next time watch where you stick your sen- 
sors,” Threepio chastised his companion. “You could 
have fried your insides.” He eyed the socket, “That’s 
a power outlet, stupid, not an information terminal.” 

Artoo whistled a mournful apology. Together they 
hunted for the proper outlet. 


Luke, Solo, Chewbacca, and the Princess reached 
the end of an empty hallway. It dead-ended before a 
large window which overlooked a hangar, giving 
them a sweeping, tantalizing view of the freighter 
just below. 

Pulling out his comlink and looking around them 
with increasing nervousness, Luke spoke into the 
pickup. “See Threepio . . . do you copy?” 

There was a threatening pause, then, “I read you, 
sir. We had to abandon the region around the office.” 

“Are you both safe?” 

“For the moment, though I’m not sanguine about 
my old age. We’re in the main hangar, across from the 
ship.” 

Luke looked toward the bay window in surprise. 
“TI can’t see you across the bay—we must be right 
above you. Stand by. We'll join you as soon as we 
can.” He clicked off, smiling suddenly at Threepio’s 
reference to his “old age.” Sometimes the tall *droid. 
was more hu:aan than people. 

“Wonder if the old man was able to knock out the 


158 STAR WARS 


tractor,” Solo was muttering as he surveyed the scene 
below. A dozen or so troopers were moving in and out 
of the freighter. 

“Getting back to the ship’s going to be like flying 
through the five Fire Rings of Fornax.” 

Leia Organa turned long enough to glance in sur- 
prise from the ship to Solo. “You came here in that 
wreck? You’re braver than I thought.” 

At once praised and insulted, Solo wasn’t sure how 
to react. He settled for giving her a dirty look as they 
started back down the hallway, Chewbacca bringing 
up the rear. 

Rounding a comer, the three humans came to an 
abrupt halt. So did the twenty Imperial troopers march- 
ing toward them. Reacting naturally—which is to say, 
without thinking—Solo drew his pistol and charged 
the platoon, yelling and howling in several languages 
at the top of his lungs. 

Startled by the totally unexpected assault and 
wrongly assuming their attacker knew what he was 
doing, the troopers started to back away. Several wild 
shots from the Corellian’s pistol initiated complete 
panic. Ranks and composure shattered, the troopers 
broke and fled down the passage. 

Drunk with his own prowess, Solo continued the 
chase, turning to shout back at Luke, “Get to the 
ship. I'll take care of these!” 

“Are you out of your mind?” Luke yelled at him. 
“Where do you think you're going?” 

But Solo had already rounded a far bend in the 
cortidor and didn’t hear. Not that it would have made 
any difference. 

Upset at his partner’s disappearance, Chewbacca 
let out a thunderous if unsettled howl and rushed 
down the hallway after him. That left Luke and Leia 
standing alone in the empty corridor. 

“Maybe I was too hard on your friend,” she con- 
fessed reluctantly. “He certainly is courageous.” 

“He certainly is an idiot!” a furious Luke countered 
tightly. “I don’t know what good it'll do us if he gets 


STAR WARS 159 


himself killed.” Muted alarms suddenly sounded from 
the bay below and behind them. 

“That’s done it,” Luke growled disgustedly. “Let’s 
go.” Together they started off in search of a way 
down to a hangar-deck level. 


Solo continued his rout of all opposition, running at 
top speed down the long hallway, yelling and brandish- 
ing his pistol. Occasionally he got off a shot whose 
effect was more valuable psychologically than tactically. 

Half the troops had already scattered down various 
subpassages and corridors. The ten troopers he con- 
tinued to harry still raced headlong away from him, 
returning his fire only indifferently. Then they came 
up against a dead end, which forced them to tum 
and confront their opponents. 

Seeing that the ten had halted, Solo likewise slowed. 
Gradually he came to a complete stop. Corellian and 
Imperials regarded one another silently. Several of 
the troopers were staring, not at Han but past him. 

It suddenly occurred to Solo that he was very much 
alone, and the same thought was beginning to seep 
into the minds of the guards he was confronting. Em- 
barrassment gave way rapidly to anger. Rifles and pis- 
tols started to come up. Solo took a step backward, 
fired one shot, then tummed and ran like hell. 

Chewbacca heard the whistle and crump of energy 
weapons firing as he lumbered lightly down the cor- 
ridor. There was something odd about them, though: 
they sounded as if they were coming closer instead of 
moving away. 

He was debating what to do when Solo came tearing 
around a corner and nearly ran him down. Seeing ten 
troopers in pursuit, the Wookie decided to reserve 
his questions for a less confused moment. He turned 
and followed Solo back up the hallway. 


Luke grabbed the Princess and pulled her back into 
a recess. She was about to retort angrily at his brusque- 


160 STAR WARS 


ness when the sound of marching feet caused her to 
shrink back into the darkness with him. 

A squad of soldiers hurried past, responding to the 
alarms that continued to ring steadily. Luke looked 
out at the retreating backs and tried to catch his 
breath. “Our only hope of reaching the ship is from 
the other side of the hangar. They already know some- 
one’s here.” He started back down the corridor, mo- 
tioning for her to follow. 

Two guards appeared at the far end of the passage- 
way, paused, and pointed directly at them. Turning, 
Luke and Leia began running back the way they had 
come. A larger squad of troopers rounded the far bend 
and came racing toward them. 

Blocked ahead and behind, they hunted frantically 
for another way out. Then Leia spotted the cramped 
subhallway and gestured to it. 

Luke fired at the nearest. of their pursuers and 
joined her in running down the narrow passage. It 
looked like a minor service corridor. Behind them, 
pursuit sounded deafeningly loud in the confining 
space. But at least it minimized the amount of fire 
the troops could concentrate on them. 

A thick hatchway appeared ahead. The lighting 
beyond turned dimmer, raising Luke’s hopes. If they 
could lock the hatch even for a few moments and lose 
themselves somewhere beyond, they might have a 
chance of shaking their immediate tormentors. 

But the hatch stayed open, showing no inclination 
to close automatically. Luke was about to let out a 
shout of triumph when the ground suddenly vanished 
ahead of him. His toes hanging over nothingness, he 
flailed to regain his balance, succeeding just in time 
to nearly go over the edge of the retracted catwalk 
anyway as the Princess plowed into him from behind. 

The catwalk had been reduced to a stub protruding 
into empty air. A cool draft caressed Luke’s face as he 
studied walls that soared to unseen heights overhead 
and plunged to fathomless depths below. The service 


STAR WARS 161 


shaft was employed in circulating and recycling the 
atmosphere of the station. 

At the moment Luke was too frightened and con- 
cerned to be angry with the Princess for nearly send- 
ing them over the edge. Besides, other dangers com- 
peted for his attention. A burst of energy exploded 
above their heads, sending metal slivers fiying. 

“I think we made a wrong tum,” he murmured, 
firing back at the advancing troops and illuminating the 
narrow corridor behind them with destruction. 

An open hatchway showed on the other side of the 
chasm. It might as well have been a light-year away. 
Hunting along the rim of the doorway, Leia located 
a switch and hit it quickly. The hatch door behind 
them slid shut with a resounding boom. At least that 
cut off fire from the rapidly nearing soldiers. It also 
left the two fugitives balanced precariously on a small 
section of catwalk barely a meter square. If the remain- 
ing section were to unexpectedly withdraw into the 
wall, they would see more of the battle station’s in- 
terior than either wished. 

Gesturing for the Princess to move aside as much 
as possible, Luke shielded his eyes and aimed the 
pistol at the hatch controls. A brief burst of energy 
melted them flush with the wall, insuring that no one 
could open it easily from the other side. Then he 
turned his attention to the vast cavity blocking their 
path to the opposite portal. It beckoned invitingly—a 
small yellow rectangle of freedom. 

Only the soft rush of air from below sounded until 
Luke commenetd, “This is a shield-rated door, but it 
won't hold them back very long.” 

“We've got to get across there somehow,” Leia 
agreed, once more examining the metal bordering the 
sealed doorway. “Find the controls for extending the 
bridge.” 

Some desperate searching produced nothing, while 
an ominous pounding and hissing sounded from be- 
hind the frozen door. A small spot of white appeared 


162 STAR WARS 


in the center of the metal, then began to spread and 
smoke. 

“They’re coming through!” Luke groaned. 

The Princess turned carefully to stare across the 
gap. “This must be a single-unit bridge, with the con- 
trols only on the other side.” 

Reaching up to the point at the panel holding the 
unreachable controls, Luke’s hand caught on some- 
thing at his waist. A frustrated glance downward re- 
vealed the cause—and engendered a bit of practical 
insanity. 

The cable coiled tightly in small loops was thin and 
fragile seeming, but it was general military-issue line 
and would have supported Chewbacca’s weight easily. 
It certainly ought to hold Leia and himself. Pulling 
the cable free of the waist catch, he gauged its length, 
matching it against the width of the abyss. This 
should span the distance with plenty to spare. 

“What now?” the Princess inquired curiously. 

Luke didn’t reply. Instead, he removed a small but 
heavy power unit from the utility belt of his armor 
and tied one end of the cable around it. Making sure 
the wrapping was secure, he stepped as close to the 
edge of their uncertain perch as he dared. 

Whirling the weighted end of the cord in increas- 
ing circles, he let it arc across the gorge. It struck 
an outcropping of cylindrical conduits on the other 
side and fell downward. With forced patience he 
pulled the loose line back in, then recoiled it for an- 
other try. 

Once again the weighted end orbited in ever 
greater circles, and again he flung it across the gap. 
He could feel the rising heat behind him as he let it 
go, heat from the melting metal doorway. 

This time the heavy end looped around an out- 
cropping of pipes above, wrapped itself several times 
around, and slipped, battery end down, into a crack 
between them. Leaning backward, he tugged and pulled 
on the cable, pulling on it at the same time as he tried 


STAR WARS 163 


to rest all his weight on it. The cable showed no sign 
of parting. 

Wrapping the other end of the line several times 
around his waist and right arm, he reached out and 
pulled the Princess close to him with the other, The 
hatch door behind- them was now a molten white, 
and liquid metal was running steadily from its borders. 

Something warm and pleasant touched Luke’s lips, 
alerting every nerve in his body. He looked down in 
shock at the Princess, his mouth still tingling from 
the kiss. 

“Just for luck,” she murmured with a slight, almost 
embarrassed smile as she put her arms around him. 
“We're going to need it.” 

Gripping the thin cable as tightly as possible with 
his left hand, Luke put his right over it, took a 
deep breath, and jumped out into air. If he had mis- 
calculated the degree of arc in their swing, they 
would miss the open hatch and slam into the metal 
wall to either side or below it. If that happened he 
doubted he could maintain his grip on the rope. 

The heart-halting transit was accomplished in less 
time than that thought, In a moment Luke was on the 
other side, scrambling on his knees to make sure they 
didn’t fall back into the pit. Leia released her hold on 
him with admirable timing. She rolled forward and 
into the open hatchway, climbing gracefully to her 
feet as Luke fought to untangle himself from the cable. 

A distant whine became a loud hiss, then a groan as 
the hatch door on the other side gave way. It col- 
lapsed inward and tumbled into the depths. If it 
touched bottom, Luke didn’t hear it. 

A few bolts struck the wall nearby. Luke turned 
his own weapon on the unsuccessful troopers and 
returned the fire even as Leia was pulling him into 
the passageway behind. 

Once clear of the door he hit the activating switch. 
It shut tightly behind them. They would have several 
minutes, at least, without having to worry about being 
shot in the back. On the other hand, Luke didn’t have 


164 STAR WARS 


the slightest idea where they were, and he found him- 
self wondering what had happened to Han and Chew- 
bacca, 


Solo and his Wookie partner had succeeded in shak- 
ing a portion of their pusuers. But it seemed that 
whenever they slipped free of several soldiers, more 
appeared to take their place. No question about it: the 
word was out on them. 

Ahead, a series of shield doors was beginning to 
close. 

“Hurry, Chewie!” Solo urged. 

Chewbacca grunted once, breathing like an over- 
used engine. Despite his immense strength, the 
Wookie was not built for long-distance sprinting. Only 
his enormous stride had enabled him to keep pace 
with the lithe Corellian. Chewbacca left a couple of 
hairs in one of the doors, but both slipped inside 
just before the five layers slammed shut. 

“That ought to hold them for a while,” Solo crowed 
with delight. The Wookie growled something at him, 
but his partner fairly fluoresced with confidence. 

“Of course I can find the ship from here—Corellians 
can’t get lost.” There came another growl, slightly 
accusing this time. Solo shrugged. “Tocneppil doesn’t 
count; be wasn’t a Corellian. Besides, I was drunk.” 


Ben Kenobi ducked into the shadows of a narrow 
passageway, seeming to become part of the metal it- 
self as a large cluster of troopers hurried past him. 
Pausing to make certain they had all passed, he 
checked the corridor ahead before starting down it. 
But he failed to see the dark silhouette which 
eclipsed the light far behind him. 


Kenobi had avoided one patrol after another, slowly 
working his way back toward the docking bay holding 
the freighter. Just another two tums and he should 
be at the hangar. What he would do then would be 


STAR WARS 165 


fetermined by how inconspicuous his charges had 
een. 

That young Luke, the adventurous Corellian and 
his partner, and the two robots had been involved in 
something other than quiet napping he already sus- 
pected from the amount of activity he had observed 
while making his way back from the power trench. 
Surely all those troops hadn’t been out hunting just 
for him! 

But something else was troubling them, judging 
from the references he had overheard concerning a 
certain important prisoner, now escaped. That dis- 
covery had puzzled him, until he considered the rest- 
less natures of both Luke and Han Solo, Undoubtedly 
they were involved in some fashion. 

Ben sensed something directly ahead and slowed 
cautiously. It had a most familiar feel to it, a half- 
remembered mental odor he could not quite place. 

Then the figure stepped out in front of him, block- 
ing his entry to the hangar not five meters away. The 
outline and size of the figure completed the momen- 
tary puzzle. It was the maturity of the mind be had 
sensed that had temporarily confused him. His hand 
moved naturally to the hilt of his deactivated saber. 

“I have been waiting a long time, Obi-wan Kenobi,” 
Darth Vader intoned solemnly. “We meet again at last. 
The circle has been completed.” Kenobi sensed satis- 
faction beneath the hideous mask. “The presence I 
sensed earlier could only have been you.” 

Kenobi regarded the great form blocking his re- 
treat and nodded slowly. He gave the impression of 
being more curious than impressed. “You still have 
much to learn.” 

“You were once my teacher,” Vader admitted, “and 
I leamed much from you. But the time of learning 
has long passed, and I am the master now.” 

The logic that had constituted the missing link in 
his brilliant pupil remained as absent as before. There 
would be no reasoning- here, Kenobi knew. Igniting 
his saber, he assumed the pose of warrior-ready, a 


166 STAR WARS 


movement accomplished with the ease and elegance of 
a dancer. 

Rather roughly, Vader imitated the movement. Sev- 
eral minutes followed without motion as the two men 
remained staring at each other, as if waiting for some 
proper, as yet unspoken signal. 

Kenobi blinked once, shook his head, and tried to 
clear his eyes, which had begun to water slightly. 
Sweat beaded up on his forehead, and his eyelids 
fluttered again. 

“Your powers are weak,” Vader noted emotionlessly. 
“Old man, you should never have come back. It will 
make your end less peaceful than you might have 
wished.” 

“You sense only a part of the force, Darth,” Kenobi 
murmured with the assurance of one to whom death 
is merely another sensation, like sleeping or making 
love or touching a candle. “As always, you perceive 
its reality as little as a utensil perceives the taste of 
food.” 

Executing a move of incredible swiftness for one 
so old, Kenobi lunged at the massive shape. Vader 
blocked the stab with equal speed, riposting with a 
counterslash that Kenobi barely parried. Another 
parry and Kenobi countered again, using this oppor- 
tunity to move around the towering Dark Lord. 

They continued to trade blows, with the old man 
now backing toward the hangar. Once, his saber and 
Vader’s locked, the interaction of the two energy 
fields producing a violent sparking and flashing. A 
low buzzing sound rose from the straining power units 
as each saber sought to override the other. 


Threepio peeked around the entrance to the dock- 
ing bay, worriedly counting the number of troopers 
milling around the deserted freighter. 

“Where could they be? Oh, oh.” 

He ducked back out of sight just as one of the 
guards glanced in his direction. A second, more cau- 
tious appraisal was more rewarding. It revealed Han 


STAR WARS 167 


Solo and Chewbacca hugging the wall of another tun- 
nel on the far side of the bay. 

Solo also was nonplussed at the number of guards. 
He muttered, “Didn’t we just leave this party?” 

Chewbacca grunted, and both turned, only-to re- 
lax and lower their weapons at the sight of Luke and 
the Princess. 

“What kept you?” Solo quipped mirthlessly. 

“We ran into,” Leia explained, panting heavily, 
“some old friends.” 

Luke was staring at the freighter. “Is the ship all 
right?” 

“Seems okay,” was Solo’s analysis. “It doesn’t look 
like they’ve removed anything or disturbed her en- 
gines. The problem’s going to be getting to it.” 

Leia suddenly pointed to one of the opposite tun- 
nels. “Look!” 

IHuminated by the flare from contacting energy 
fields, Ben Kenobi and Darth Vader were backing 
toward the bay. The fight attracted the attention of 
others beside the Senator. Every one of the guards 
moved in for a better view of the Olympian conflict. 

“Now’s our chance,” Solo observed, starting forward. 

All seven of the troopers guarding the ship broke 
and rushed toward the combatants, going to the Dark 
Lord’s aid. Threepio barely ducked aside as they ran 
past him. Turning back into the alcove, he yelled to 
his companion. 

“Unplug yourself, Artoo. We're leaving.” As soon 
as the Artoo unit slipped his sensor arm free of the 
socket, the two ’droids began to slowly edge out into 
the open bay. 

Kenobi heard the approaching commotion and 
spared a glance back into the hangar. The squad of 
troopers bearing down on him was enough to show 
that he was trapped. 

Vader took immediate advantage of the momentary 
distraction to bring his saber over and down. Kenobi 
somehow managed to deflect the sweeping blow, at 
once parrying and turning a complete circle. 


168 STAR WARS 


“You still have your skill, but your power fades. 
Prepare to meet the force, Obi-wan.” 

Kenobi gauged the shrinking distance between the 
oncoming troops and himself, then tured a pitying 
gaze on Vader. “This is a fight you cannot win, 
Darth. Your power has matured since I taught you, 
but I too have grown much since our parting. If my 
blade finds its mark, you will cease to exist. But if 
you cut me down, I will only become more power- 
ful. Heed my words.” 

“Your philosophies no longer confuse me, old man,” 
Vader growled contemptuously, “I am tbe master 
now.” 

Once again he lunged forward, feinting, and then 
slashing in a deadly downward arc with the saber. 
It struck home, cutting the old man cleanly in half. 
There was a brief flash as Kenobi’s cloak fluttered to 
the deck in two neat sections. 

But Ben Kenobi was not in it. Wary of some tricks, 
Vader poked at the empty cloak sections with the 
saber. There was no sign of the old man. He had 
vanished as though he had never existed. 

The guards slowed their approach and joined Vader 
in examining the place where Kenobi had stood sec- 
onds before. Several of them muttered, and even the 
awesome presence of the Sith Lord couldn’t keep a 
few of them from feeling a little afraid. 


Once the guards had turned and dashed for the far 
tunnel, Solo and the others started for the starship 
—until Luke saw Kenobi cut in two. Instantly he 
shifted direction and was moving toward the guards. 

“Ben!” he screamed, firing wildly toward the troops. 
Solo cursed, but turned to fire in support of Luke. ~ 

One of the energy bolts struck the safety release 
on the tunnel blast door. The emergency hold broken, 
the heavy door fairly exploded downward. Both the 
guards and Vader leaped clear—the guards into the 
bay and Vader backward, to the opposite side of the 
door. 


STAR WARS 169 


Solo had tumed and started for the entrance to the 
ship, but he paused as he saw Luke running toward 
the guards. 

“It’s too late!” Leia yelled at him. “It’s over.” 

“No!” Luke half shouted, half sobbed. 

A familiar, yet different voice rang in his ears—Ben’s 
voice. “Luke ., . listen!” was all it said. 

Bewildered, “Luke turned to hunt for the source of 
that admonition, He only saw Leia beckoning to him 
as she followed Artoo and Threepio up the ramp. 

“Come on! There’s no time.” 

Hesitating, his mind still on that imagined voice 
(or was it imagined?), a confused Luke took aim and 
felled several soldiers before he, too, whirled and 
retreated into the freighter. 

DAZED, Luke staggered toward the front of the 
ship. He barely noticed the sound of energy bolts, 
too weak to penetrate the ship’s deflectors, exploding 
harmlessly outside. His own safety was currently of 
little concern to him. With misty eyes he stared as 
Chewbacca and Solo adjusted controls. 

“I hope that old man managed to knock out that 
tractor beam,” the Corellian was saying, “or this is go- 
ing to be a very short ride.” 

Ignoring him, Luke returned to the hold area and 
slumped into a seat, his head falling into his hands. 
Leia Organa regarded him quietly for a while, then 
removed her cloak. Moving to him, she placed it 
gently around his shoulders. 

“There wasn’t anything you could have done,” she 
whispered comfortingly. “It was all over in an in- 
stant.” 


170 STAR WARS 


“I can’t believe he’s gone,” came Luke’s reply, his 
voice a ghost of a whisper. “I can’t.” 

Solo shifted a lever, staring nervously ahead. But 
the massive bay door was constructed to respond to 
the approach of any vessel. The safety feature now 
served to facilitate their escape as the freighter slipped 
quickly past the still-opening door and out into free 
space. 

“Nothing,” Solo sighed, studying several readouts 
with profound satisfaction. “Not so much as an erg of 
come-hither. He did it, all right.” 

Chewbacca rumbled something, and the pilot’s at- 
tention shifted to another series of gauges. “Right, 
Chewie. I forget, for a moment, that there are other 
ways of persuading us to return.” His teeth flashed 
in a grin of determination. “But the only way they'll 
get us back in that traveling tomb is in pieces. Take 
over.” 

Whirling, he ran out of the cockpit. “Come with 
me, kid,” he shouted at Luke as he entered the hold. 
“We're not out of this yet.” 

Luke didn’t respond, didn’t move, and Leia turned 
an angry face to Solo. “Leave him alone. Can’t you see 
what the old man meant to him?” 

An explosion jarred the ship, nearly tumbling Solo 
to the deck. 

“So what? The old man gave himself to give us a 
chance to get away. You want to waste that, Luke? 
You want Kenobi to have wasted himself?” 

Luke’s head came up and he stared with vacant 
eyes at the Corellian. No, not quite vacant . . . There 
was something too old and unpleasant shining blindly 
in the back of them. Without a word, he threw off 
the cloak and joined Solo. 

Giving him a reassuring smile, Solo gestured down 
a narrow accessway. Luke looked in the indicted 
direction, smiled grimly, and rushed down it as Solo 
started down the opposing passage. 

Luke found himself in a large rotating bubble pro- 
truding from the side of the ship. A long, wicked- 


STAR WARS 171 


looking tube whose purpose was instantly apparent 
projected from the apex of the transparent hemis- 
phere. Luke settled himself into the seat and com- 
menced a rapid study of the controls. Activator here, 
firing grip here . . . He had fired such weapons a 
thousand times before—in his dreams. 

Forward, Chewbacca and Leia were searching the 
speckled pit outside for the attacking fighters repre- 
sented by firepricks on several screens. Chewbacca 
suddenly growled throatily and pulled back on several 
controls as Leia let out a yelp. 

“Here they come.” 

The starfield wheeled around Luke as an Imperial 
Tie fighter raced toward him and then swung over- 
head to vanish into the distance. Within the tiny cock- 
pit its pilot frowned as the supposedly battered 
freighter darted out of range. Adjusting his own con- 
trols, he swung up and over in a high arc intended to 
take him on a fresh intercept course with the escap- 
ing ship. 

Solo fired at another fighter, and its pilot nearly 
slammed his engine through its mountings as he 
fought to avoid the powerful energy bolts. As he did 
so, his hurried maneuver brought him under and 
around to the other side of the freighter. Even as he 
was lowering the glare reflector over his eyes, Luke 
opened up on the racing fighter. 

Chewbacca was alternating his attention between 
the instruments and the tracking screens, while Leia 
strained to separate distant stars from nearby assas- 
sins. 

Two fighters dove simultaneously on the twisting, 
spiraling freighter, trying to line their weapons on 
the unexpectedly flexible craft. Solo fired at the de- 
scending globes, and Luke followed with his own 
weapon a second later. Both fired on the starship and 
then shot past. 

“They're coming in too fast,” Luke yelled into his 
comlink. 

Another enemy bolt struck the freighter forward 


172, STAR WARS 


and was barely shunted aside by its deffectors. The 
cockpit shuddered violently, and gauges whined in 
protest at the quantity of energy they were being 
asked to monitor and compensate for. 

Chewbacca muttered something to Leia, and she 
murmured a soft reply as if she almost understood. 

Another fighter unloosed a barrage on the freighter, 
only this time the bolt pierced an overloaded screen 
and actually struck the side of the ship. Though par- 
tially deflected, it still carried enough power to blow 
out a large control panel in the main passageway, send- 
ing a rain of sparks and smoke in all directions. Artoo 
Detoo started stolidly toward the miniature inferno 
as the ship lurched crazily, throwing the less stable 
Threepio into a cabinet full of component chips. 

A warning light began to wink for attention in the 
cockpit. Chewbacca muttered to Leia, who stared at 
him worriedly and wished for the gift of Wookie-gab. 

Then a fighter floated down on the damaged 
freighter, right into Luke’s sights. His mouth moving 
silently, Luke fired at it. The incredibly agile little 
vessel darted out of his range, but as it passed be- 
neath them Solo picked it up instantly, and com- 
menced a steady following fire. Without warning the 
fighter erupted in an incredible flash of multicolored 
light, throwing a billion bits of superheated metal to 
every section of the cosmos. 

Solo whirled and gave Luke a victory wave, which 
the younger man gleefully returned. Then they turned 
back to their weapons as yet another fighter stormed 
over the freighter’s bull, firing at its transmitter 
dish. 

In the middle of the main passageway, angry flames 
raged around a stubby cylindrical shape. A fine white 
powdery spray issued from Artoo Detoo’s head. Wher- 
ever it touched, the fire retreated sharply. 

Luke tried to relax, to become a part of the weapon. 
Almost without being aware of it, he was firing at a 
fetreating Imperial. When he blinked, it was to see 
the flaming fragments of the enemy craft forming a 


STAR WARS 173 


perfect ball of light outside the turret. It was his turn 
to spin and flash the Corellian a grin of triumph. 

In the cockpit, Leia paid close attention to scat- 
tered readouts as well as searching the sky for addi- 
tional ships. She directed her voice toward an open 
mike. 

“There are still two more of them out there. Looks 
like we’ve lost the lateral monitors and the starboard 
deflector shield.” 

“Don’t worry,” Solo told her, with as much hope as 
confidence, “‘she’ll hold together.” He gave the walls 
a pleading stare. “You hear me, ship? Hold together! 
Chewie, try to keep them on our port side. If we—” 

He was forced to break off as a Tie fighter seemed 
to materialize out of nowhere, energy bolts reaching 
out from it toward him. Its companion craft came up 
on the freighter’s other side and Luke found himself 
firing steadily at it, ignoring the immensely powerful 
energy it threw at him. At the last possible instant be- 
fore it passed out of range, he swung the weapon’s 
nozzle minutely, his finger tightening convulsively on 
the fire control. The Imperial fighter turned into a 
rapidly expanding cloud of phosphorescing dust. The 
other fighter apparently considered the shrunken odds, 
turned, and retreated at top speed. 

“We've made it!” Leia shouted, turning to give the 
startled Wookie an unexpected hug. He growled at 
her—very softly. 


Darth Vader strode into the control room where 
Governor Tarkin stood staring at a huge, brilliantly 
lit screen. It displayed a sea of stars, but it was not 
the spectacular view which absorbed the Governor’s 
thoughts at the moment. He barely glanced around 
as Vader entered. 

“Are they away?” the Dark Lord demanded. 
“They’ve just completed the jump to hyperspace. 
No doubt they are at this very moment congratulating. 
themselves on their daring and success.” Now Tarkin 
turned to face Vader, a hint of warning in his tone. 


174. STAR WARS 


“I'm taking an awful chance, on your insistence, 
Vader. This had better work. Are you certain the 
homing beacon is secure aboard their ship?” 

Vader exuded confidence beneath the reflective 
black mask. “There is nothing to fear. This will be a 
day long remembered. It already has been witness to 
the final extinction of the Jedi. Soon it will see the 
end of the Alliance and the rebellion.” 


Solo switched places with Chewbacca, the Wookie 
grateful for the opportunity to relinquish the controls, 
As the Corellian moved aft to check the extent of 
the damage, a determined-looking Leia passed him in 
the corridor. 

“What do you think, sweetheart?” Solo inquired, 
well pleased with himself. “Not a bad bit of rescuing. 
You know, sometimes I amaze even myself.” 

“That doesn’t sound too hard,” she admitted read- 
ily. “The important thing is not my safety, but the 
fact that the information in the R-2 ‘droid is still in- 
tact.” 

“What’s that *droid carrying that’s so important, 
anyway?” ; 

Leia considered the blazing starfield forward. 
“Complete technical schematics of the battle station. 
I only hope that when the data is analyzed, a weakness 
can be found. Until then, until the station itself is 
destroyed, we must go on. This war isn’t over yet.” 

“Tt is for me,” objected the pilot. “I’m not on this 
mission for your revolution. Economics interest me, 
not politics. There’s business to be done under any 
government. And I’m not doing it for you, Princess. 
I expect to be well paid for risking my ship and my 
hide.” 

“You needn’t worry about your reward,” she as- 
sured him sadly, turning to leave. “If money is what 
you love .. . that’s what you will receive.” 

On leaving the cockpit she saw Luke coming for- 
ward, and she spoke softly to him in passing. “Your 


STAR WARS 175 


friend is indeed a mercenary. I wonder if he really 
cares about anything—or anybody.” 

Luke stared after her until she disappeared into 
the main hold area, then whispered, “J do... TJ 
care.” Then he moved into the cockpit and sat in the 
seat Chewbacca had just vacated. 

“What do you think of her, Han?” 

Solo didn’t hesitate. “I try not to.” 

Luke probably hadn’t intended his response to be 
audible, but Solo overheard his murmur of “Good” 
none the less, 

“Still,” Solo ventured thoughtfully, “she’s got a lot 
of spirit to go with her sass. I don’t know, do you think 
‘it’s possible for a Princess and a guy like me... ?” 

“No,” Luke cut him off sharply. He turned and 
looked away. 

Solo smiled at the younger man’s jealousy, uncertain 
in his own mind whether he had added the comment 
to bait his naive friend—or because it was the truth. 


Yavin was not a habitable world. The huge gas giant 
was patterned with pastel high-altitude cloud forma- 
tions. Here and there the softly lambent atmosphere 
was molded by cyclonic storms composed of six- 
hundred-kilometer-per-hour winds which boiled roll- 
ing gases up from the Yavinesque troposphere. It was 
a world of lingering beauty and quick death for any 
who might try to penetrate to its comparatively small 
core of frozen liquids. 

Several of the giant planet’s numerous moons, 
however, were planet-sized themselves, and of these, 
three could support humanoid life. Particularly invit- 
ing was the satellite designated by the system’s dis- 
coverers as number four. It shone like an emerald in 
Yavin’s necklace of moons, rich with plant and animal 
life. But it was not listed among those worlds sup- 
porting human settlement, Yavin was located too far 
from the settled regions of the galaxy. 

Perhaps the latter reason, or both, or a combination 
of causes still unknown had been responsible for 


176 STAR WARS 


whatever race had once risen from satellite four’s 
jungles, only to disappear quietly long before the 
first human explorer set foot on the tiny world. Little 
was known of them save that they left a number of 
impressive monuments, and that they were one of 
the many races which had aspired to the stars only to 
bave their desperate reach fall short. 

Now all that remained were the mounds and foliage- 
clad clumps formed by jungle-covered buildings. But 
though they had sunk back into the dust, their arti- 
facts and their world continued to serve an important 
purpose. , 

Strange cries and barely perceptible moans sounded 
from every tree and copse; hoots and growls and 
strange mutterings issued from creatures content to 
Temain concealed in the dense undergrowth. When- 
ever dawn broke over moon the fourth, heralding one 
of its long days, an especially feral chorus of shrieks 
and weirdly modulated screams would resound 
through the thick mist. 

Even stranger sounds surged continually from one 
particular place. Here lay the most impressive of those 
edifices which a vanished race had raised toward the 
heavens. It was a temple, a roughly pyramidal struc- 
_ture so colossal that it seemed impossible it could 
have been built without the aid of modern gravi- 
tonic construction techniques. Yet all evidence 
pointed only to simple machines, hand technology— 
and, perhaps, devices alien and long lost. 

While the science of this moon’s inhabitants had 
led them to a dead end as far as offworld travel was 
concerned, they had produced several discoveries 
which in certain ways surpassed similar Imperial ac- 
complishments—one of which involved a still unex- 
plained method of cutting and transporting gargantuan 
blocks of stone from the crust of the moon. 

From these monstrous blocks of solid rock, the 
massive temple had been constructed. The jungle 
had scaled even its soaring crest, clothing it in rich 
green and brown. Only near its base, in the temple 


STAR WARS 177 


front, did the jungle slide away completely, to reveal 
a long, dark entrance cut by its builders and enlarged 
to suit the needs of the structure’s present occu- 
pants. 

A tiny machine, its smooth metal sides and silvery 
hue incongruous amidst the all-pervasive green, ap- 
peared in the forest. It hummed like a fat, swollen 
beetle as it conveyed its cluster of passengers toward 
the open temple base. Crossing a considerable clear- 
ing, it was soon swallowed up by the dark maw in the 
front of the massive structure, leaving the jungle once 
more in the paws and claws of invisible squallers and 
screechers. 

The original builders would never have recognized 
the interior of their temple. Seamed metal had re- 
placed rock, and poured paneling did service for cham- 
ber division in place of wood. Nor would they have 
been able to see the buried layers excavated into the 
tock below, layers which contained hangar upon han- 
gar linked by powerful elevators. 

A landspeeder came to a gradual stop within the 
temple, whose first level was the uppermost of those 
ship-filled hangars. Its engine died obediently as the 
vehicle settled to the ground. A noisy cluster of hu- 
mans waiting nearby ceased their conversation and 
tushed toward the craft. 

Fortunately Leia Organa quickly emerged from the 
speeder, or the man who reached it first might have 
pulled her bodily from it, so great was his delight at 
the sight of her. He settled for giving her a smother- 
ing hug as his companion called their own greetings. 

“You're «safe! We’d feared you’d been killed.” 
Abruptly he composed himself, stepped away from 
her, and executed a formal bow. “When we heard 
about Alderaan, we were afraid that you were .. . lost 
along with the rest of the population.” 

“All that is past history, Commander Willard,” she 
said. “We have a future to live for. Alderaan and its 
people are gone.” Her voice turned bitter cold, fright- 


178 STAR WARS 


ening in so delicate-looking a person. “We must see 
that such does not happen again. 

“We don’t have time for our sorrows, Commander,” 
she continued briskly. “The battle station has surely 
tracked us here.” 

Solo started to protest, but she shut him up with 
logic and a stern look. 

“That’s the only explanation for the ease of our es- 
cape. They sent only four Tie fighters after us. They 
could as easily have launched a hundred.” 

Solo had no reply for that, but continued to fume 
silently. Then Leia gestured at Artoo Detoo. 

“You must use the information locked in this R-2 
*droid to form a plan of attack. It’s our only hope. The 
station itself is more powerful than anyone suspected.” 
Her voice dropped. “If the data does not yield a weak- 
ness, there will be no stopping them.” 

Luke was then treated to a sight unique in his ex- 
perience, unique in most men’s. Several rebel tech- 
nicians walked up to Artoo Detoo, positioned them- 
selves around him, and gently hoisted him in 
their arms. This was the first, and probably the last 
time he would ever see a robot being carried respect- 
fully by men. 


Theoretically, no weapon could penetrate the ex- 
ceptionally dense stone of the ancient temple, but 
Luke had seen the shattered remains of Alderaan 
and knew that for those in the incredible battle sta- 
tion the entire moon would present simply another 
abstract problem in mass-energy conversion. 

Little Artoo Detoo rested comfortably in a place of 
honor, his body radiating computer and data-bank 
hookups like a metal hairdo. On an array of screens 
and readouts nearby the technical information stored 
on the submicroscopic record tape within the robot's 
brain was being played out. Hours of it—diagrams, 
charts, statistics. 

First the rush of material was slowed and digested 
by more sophisticated computer minds. Then the most 


STAR WARS 179 


critical information was turned over to human analysts 
for detailed evaluation. 

All the while See Threepio stood close to Artoo, 
marveling at how so much complex data could be 
stored in the mind of so simple a droid. 


The central briefing room was located deep within 
the bowels of the temple. The long, low-ceiling audi- 
torlum was dominated by a raised dais and huge 
electronic display screen at its far end. Pilots, naviga- 
tors, and a sprinkling of Artoo units filled the seats. 
Impatient, and feeling very out of place, Han Solo 
and Chewbacca stood as far away from the stage, with 
its assemblage of officers and Senators, as possible. 
Solo scanned the crowd, searching for Luke. Despite 
some common sense entreaties, the crazy kid had gone 
and joined the regular pilots. He didn’t see Luke, 
but he recognized the Princess as she talked som- 
berly with some bemedaled oldster. 

When a tall, dignified gentleman with too many 
deaths on his soul moved to stand by the far side of 
the screen, Solo turned his attention to him, as did 
everyone else in the room. As soon as an expectant 
silence had gripped the crowd, General Jan Dodonna 
adjusted the tiny mike on his chest and indicated the 
small group seated close to him. 

“You alt know these people,” he intoned with 
quiet power. “They are the Senators and Generals 
whose worlds have given us support, whether open 
or covert. They have come to be with us in what 
may well prove to be the decisive moment.” He let 
his gaze touch many in the crowd, and none who were 
so favored remained unmoved. 

“The Imperial battle station you now all have heard 
of is approaching from the far side of Yavin and its 
sun. That gives us a little extra time, but it must be 
stopped—once and for all—before it can reach this 
moon, before it can bring its weaponry to bear on us 
as it did on Alderaan.” A murmur ran through the 


180 STAR WARS 


crowd at the mention of that world, so callously oblit- 
erated. 

“The station,” Dodonna went on, “is heavily 
shielded and mounts more firepower than half the 
Imperial fleet. But its defenses were designed to fend 
off large-scale, capital ship assaults. A small, one- or 
two-man fighter should be able to slip through its de- 
fensive screens.” 

A slim, supple man who resembled an older version 
of Han Solo rose. Dodonna acknowledged his pres- 
ence. “What is it, Red Leader?” 

The man gestured toward the display screen, which 
showed a computer portrait of the battle station. “Par- 
don me for asking, sir, but what good are our snub 
fighters going to be against that?” 

Dodonna considered. “Well, the Empire doesn’t 
think a one-man fighter is any threat to anything ex- 
cept another small ship, like a Tie fighter, or they 
would have provided tighter screens. Apparently 
they're convinced that their defensive weaponry can 
fend off any light attacks. 

“But an analysis of the plans provided by Princess 
Leia has revealed what we think is a weakness in the 
station’s design. A big ship couldn’t get near it, but an 
X- or Y-wing fighter might. 

“It’s a small thermal exhaust port. Its size belies its 
importance, as it appears to be an unshielded shaft 
that runs directly into the main reactor system power- 
ing the station. Since this serves as an emergency 
outlet for waste heat in the event of reactor over- 
production, its usefulness would be eliminated by 
particle shielding. A direct hit would initiate a chain 
reaction that will destroy the station.” 

-Mutterings of disbelief ran through the room. The 
more experienced the pilot, the greater his expressed 
disbelief. 

“T didn’t say your approach would be easy,” Do- 
donna admonished them. He gestured at the screen. 
“You must maneuver straight in down this shaft, 
level off in the trench, and skim the surface to—this 


STAR WARS 181 


point. The target is only two meters across. It will 
take a precise hit at exactly ninety degrees to reach 
the reactor systematization. And only a direct hit will 
start the complete reaction. 

“T said the port wasn’t particle-shielded. However, 
it is completely ray-shielded. That means no energy 
beams. You'll have to use proton torpedoes.” 

A few of the pilots laughed humorlessly. One of 
them was a teenaged fighter jockey seated next to 
Luke who bore the unlikely name of Wedge Antilles. 
Artoo Detoo was there also, seated next to another 
Artoo unit who emitted 4 long whistle of hopelessness, 

“A two-meter target at maximum speed—with a 
torpedo, yet,” Antilles snorted. ‘“That’s impossible 
even for the computer.” 

“But it’s not impossible,” protested Luke. “I used 
to bulls-eye womp-rats in my T-16 back home. 
They’re not much bigger than two meters.” 

“Is that so?” the rakishly uniformed youth noted 
derisively. “Tell me, when you were going after your 
particular varmint, were there a thousand other, what 
did you call it, ‘womp-rats’ armed with power rifles 
firing up at you?” He shook his head sadly. 

“With all that firepower on the station directed at 
us, this will take a little more than barnyard marks- 
manship, believe me.” 

As if to confirm Antilles’ pessimism, Dodonna indi- 
cated a string of lights on the ever-changing sche- 
matic. “Take special note of these emplacements. 
There’s a heavy concentration of firepower on the 
latitudinal axes, was well as several dense circum- 
polar clusters. 

“Also, their field generators will probably create a 
lot of distortion, especially in and around the trench. 
I figure that maneuverability in that sector will be 
less than point three.” This produced more murmurs 
and a few groans from the assembly. 

“Remember,” the General went on, “you must 
achieve a direct hit. Yellow squadron will cover for 


182 STAR WARS 


Red on the first run. Green will cover Blue on the 
second. Any questions?” 

A muted buzz filled the room. One man stood, lean 
and handsome—too much so, it seemed, to be ready 
to throw away his life for something as abstract as 
freedom. 

“What if both runs fail, What happens after that?” 

Dodonna smiled tightly. “There won’t be any ‘after 
that.’ ” The man nodded slowly, understandingly, and 
sat down. “Anyone else?” Silence now, pregnant with 
expectation. 

“Then man your ships, and may the force be with 
you.” 

Like oil draining from a shallow pot, the seated 
ranks of men, women, and machines rose and flowed 
toward the exits. 


Elevators hummed busily, lifting more and more 
deadly shapes from buried depths to the staging area 
in the primary temple hangar as Luke, Threepio, 
and Artoo Detoo walked toward the hangar entrance. 

Neither the bustling flight crews, nor the pilots 
performing final checkouts, nor the massive sparks 
thrown off as power couplings were disconnected cap- 
tured Luke’s attention at the moment. Instead, it was 
held by the activity of two far more familiar figures. 

Solo and Chewbacca were loading a pile of small 
strongboxes onto an armored landspeeder. They were 
completely absorbed with this activity, ignoring the 
preparations going all around them, 

Solo glanced up briefly as Luke and the robots ap- 
proached, then returned to his loading. Luke simply 
watched sadly, conflicting emotions careening con- 
fusedly off one another inside him. Solo was cocky, 
reckless, intolerant, and smug. He was also brave to a 
fault, instructive, and unfailingly cheery. The com- 
bination made for a confusing friend—but a friend 
nonetheless. . 

“You got your reward,” Luke finally observed, indi- 


STAR WARS 183 


cating the boxes. Solo nodded once. “And you're 
leaving, then?” 

“That’s right, kid. Pve got some old debts to pay 
off, and even if I didn’t, I don’t think [’d be fool 
enough to stick around here.” He eyed Luke apprais- 
ingly. “You're pretty good in a scrap, kid. Why don’t 
you come with us? I could use you.” 

The mercenary gleam in Solo’s eyes only made 
Luke mad. “Why don’t you look around you and see 
something besides yourself for a change? You know 
what’s going to happen here, what they’re up against. 
They could use a good pilot. But you're turning your 
back on them.” 

Solo didn’t appear upset at Luke’s tirade. “What 
good’s a reward if you’re not around to spend it? At- 
tacking that battle station isn’t my idea of courage— 
more like suicide.” 

“Yeah ... Take care of yourself, Han,” Luke said 
quietly, turning to leave. “But I guess that’s what 
you’re best at, isn’t it?” He started back into the 
hangar depths, flanked by the two ’droids. 

Solo stared after him, hesitated, then called, “Hey, 
Luke . . . may the force be with you.” Luke looked 
back to see Solo wink at him. He waved—sort of. Then 
he was swallowed up by moving mechanics and ma- 
chinery. 

Solo returned to his work, lifted a box—and 
stopped, to see Chewbacca gazing fixedly at him. 

“What are you staring at, gruesome? I know what 
I’m doing. Get back to work!” 

Slowly, still eyeing his partner, the Wookie re- 
turned to the task of loading the heavy crates. 

Sorrowful thoughts of Solo vanished when Luke 
saw the petite, slim figure standing by his ship—the 
ship he had been granted. 

“Are you sure this is what you want?” Princess Leia 
asked him. “It could be a deadly reward.” 

Luke’s eyes were filled with the sleek, venomous 
metal shape. “More than anything.” 

“Then what’s wrong?” 


184 STAR WARS 


Luke looked back at her and shrugged. “It’s Han. 
I thought he’d change his mind. I thought he’d join 
us.” 

“A man must follow his own path,” she told him, 
sounding now like a Senator. “No one can choose it 
for him. Han Solo’s priorities differ from ours. I wish 
it were otherwise, but I can’t find it in my heart to 
condemn him.” She stood on tiptoes, gave him a 
quick, almost embarrassed kiss, and turned to go. “May 
the force be with you.” 

“I only wish,” Luke murmured to himself as he 
started back to his ship, “Ben were here.” 

So intent was he on thoughts of Kenobi, the Prin- 
cess, and Han that he didn’t notice the larger figure 
which tightly locked on to his arm. He tumed, his 
initial anger gone instantly in astonishment as he 
tecognized the figure. 

“Luke!” the slightly older man exclaimed. “I don’t 
believe it! How’d you get here? Are you going out 
with us?” 

“Biggs!” Luke embraced his friend warmly. “Of 
course I'll be up there with you.” His smile faded 
slightly. “I haven’t got a choice, anymore.” Then he 
brightened again. “Listen, have I got some stories to 
tell you...” 

The steady whooping and laughing the two made 
was in marked contrast to the solemnity with which 
the other men and women in the hangar went about 
their business. The commotion attracted the atten- 
tion of an older, war-worn man known to the younger 
pilots only as Blue Leader. 

His face wrinkled with curiosity as he approached 
the two younger men. It was a face scorched by the 
same fire that flickered in his eyes, a blaze kindled 
not by revolutionary fervor but by years of living 
through and witnessing far too much injustice. Be- 
hind that fatherly visage a raging demon fought to 
escape. Soon, very soon, he would be free to let it 
loose. 

Now he was interested in these two young men, 


STAR WARS 185 


who in a few hours were likely to be particles of 
frozen meat floating about Yavin. One of them he 
Tecognized, 

“Aren’t you Luke Skywalker? Have you been 
checked out on the Incom T-65?” 

“Sir,” Biggs put in before his friend could reply, 
“Luke’s the best bush pilot in the outer-rim terti- 
tories.” 

The older man patted Luke reassuringly on the 
back as they studied his waiting ship. “Something to 
be proud of. I’ve got over a thousand hours in an In- 
com skyhopper myself.” He paused a moment before 
going on. 

“I met your father once when I was just a boy, 
Luke. He was .a great pilot. You'll do all right out 
there. If you’ve got half your father’s skill, you'll do 
a damn sight better than all right.” 

“Thank you, sir. I'll try.” 

“There’s not much difference control-wise be- 
tween an X-wing T-65,” Blue Leader went on, “and 
a skyhopper.” His smile turned ferocious. “Except the 
payload’s of a somewhat different nature.” 

He left them and hurried toward his own ship. 
Luke had a hundred questions to ask him, and no 
time for even one. 

“T've got to get aboard my own boat, Luke. Lis- 
ten, you'll tell me your stories when we come back, 
All nght?” 

“All right. I told you [’'d make it here someday, 
Biggs.” 

“You did.” His friend was moving toward a cluster 
of waiting fighters, adjusting his flight suit. “It’s going 
to be like old times, Luke. We’re a couple of shooting 
stars that can’t be stopped!” 

Luke laughed. They used to reassure themselves 
with that cry when they piloted starships of sandhills 
and dead logs behind the flaking, pitted buildings of 
Anchorhead ... years and years ago. 

Once more Luke turned toward his ship, admiring 
its deadly lines, Despite Blue Leader’s assurances, he 


186 STAR WARS 


had to admit that it didn’t look much like an Incom 
skyhopper. Artoo Detoo was being snuggled into the 
R-2 socket behind the fighter cockpit. A forlorn metal 
figure stood below, watching the operation and shuf- 
fling nervously about. 

“Hold on tight,” See Threepio was cautioning the 
smaller robot. “You’ve got to come back. If you don’t 
come back, who am I going to have to yell at?” 
For Threepio, that query amounted to an overwhelm- 
ing outburst of emotion. 

Artoo beeped confidently down at his friend, how- 
ever, as Luke mounted the cockpit entry. Farther 
down the hangar he saw Blue Leader already set in 
his acceleration chair and signaling to his ground crew. 
Another roar was added to the monstrous din filling 
the hangar area as ship after ship activated its engines. 
In that enclosed rectangle of temple the steady thun- 
der was overpowering. 

Slipping into the cockpit seat, Luke studied the 
various controls as ground attendants began wiring him 
via cords and umbilicals into the ship. His confidence 
increased steadily. The instrumentation was neces- 
sarily simplified and, as Blue Leader had indicated, 
much like his old skyhopper. 

Something patted his helmet, and he glanced left 
to see the crew chief leaning close. He had to shout 
to be heard above the deafening howl of multiple 
engines. “That R-2 unit of yours seems a little beat- 
up. Do you want a new one?” 

Luke glanced briefly back at the secured "droid be- 
fore replying. Artoo Detoo looked like a permanent 
piece of the fighter. 

“Not on your life. That ’droid and I have been 
through a lot together. All secure, Artoo?” The droid 
replied with a reassuring beep. 

As the ground chief jumped clear, Luke com- 
menaced the final checkout of all instruments. It slowly 
occurred to him what he and the others were about 
to attempt. Not that his personal feelings could over- 
ride his decision to join them. He was no longer an 


STAR WARS 187 


individual, functioning solely to satisfy his personal 
needs. Something now bound him to every other 
man and woman in this hangar. 

All around him, scattered scenes of good-bye were 
taking place—some serious, some kidding, all with the 
true emotion of the moment masked by efficiency. 
Luke turned away from where one pilot left a mech- 
anic, possibly a sister or wife, or just a friend, with a 
sharp, passionate kiss. 

He wondered how many of them had their own 
little debts to settle with the Empire. Something 
crackled in his helmet. In response, he touched a 
small lever. The ship began to roll forward, slowly but 
with increasing speed, toward the gaping mouth of 
the temple. 

LEIA Organa sat silently before the huge display screen 
on which Yavin and its moons were displayed. A 
large red dot moved steadily toward the fourth of 
those satellites. Dodonna and several other field com- 
manders of the Alliance stood behind her, their eyes 
also intent on the screen. Tiny green flecks began to 
appear around the fourth moon, to coalesce into small 
clouds like hovering emerald gnats. 

Dodonna put a hand on her shoulder. It was com- 
forting. “The red represents the progress of the Im- 
perial battle station as it moves deeper into Yavin’s 
system.” 

“Our ships are all away,” a Commander behind him 
declared. 

A single man stood alone in the cylindrical hold, 
secured to the top of a rapier-thin tower, Staring 
through fixed-mount electrobinoculars, he was the sole 


188 STAR WARS 


visible representative of the vast technology buried 
in the green purgatory below. 

Muted cries, moans, and primeval gurglings drifted 
up to him from the highest treetops. Some were fright- 
ening, some less so, but none were as indicative of 
power held in check as the four silvery starships which 
burst into view above the observer. Keeping a tight 
formation, they exploded through humid air to vanish 
in seconds into the morming cloud cover far above. 
Sound-shadows rattled the trees moments later, in a 
forlorn attempt to catch up to the engines which had 
produced them. 

Slowly assuming attack formations combining X- 
and Y-wing ships, the various fighters began to move 
outward from the moon, out past the oceanic atmos- 
phere of giant Yavin, out to meet the technologic 
executioner. 

The man who had observed the byplay between 
Biggs and Luke now lowered his glare visor and ad- 
justed his half-automatic, half-manual gunsights as he 
checked the ships to either side of him. 

“Blue boys,” he addressed his intership pickup, 
“this is Blue Leader. Adjust your selectors and check 
in. Approaching target at one point three...” 

Ahead, the bright sphere of what looked like one 
of Yavin’s moons but wasn’t began to glow with in- 
creasing brightness. It shone with an eerie metallic 
glow utterly unlike that of any natural satellite. As he 
watched the giant battle station make its way around 
the rim of Yavin, Blue Leader’s thoughts traveled 
back over the years. Over the uncountable injustices, 
the innocents taken away for interrogation and never 
heard from again—the whole multitude of evils in- 
curred by an increasingly corrupt and indifferent Im- 
perial government. All those terrors and agonies were 
concentrated, magnified, represented by the single 
bloated feat of engineering they were approaching 
now. 

“This is it, boys,” he said to the mike. “Blue Two, 
you're too far out. Close it up, Wedge.” 


STAR WARS 189 


The young pilot Luke had encountered in the 
temple briefing room glanced to starboard, then back 
to his instruments. He executed a slight adjustment, 
frowning. “Sorry, boss. My ranger seems to be a few 
points off. Til have to go on manual.” 

“Check, Blue Two. Watch yourself. All ships, stand 
by to lock S-foils in attack mode.” 

One after another, from Luke and Biggs, Wedge 
and the other members of Blue assault squadron, the 
replies came back. “Standing by...” 

“Execute,” Blue Leader commanded, when John 
D. and Piggy had indicated they were in readiness. 

The double wings on the X-wing fighters split apart, 
like narrow seeds. Each fighter now displayed four 
wings, its wing-mounted armament and quadruple 
engines now deployed for maximum firepower and 
maneuverability. 

Ahead, the Imperial station continued to grow. Sur- 
face features became visible as each pilot recognized 
docking bays, broadcast antennae, and other man-made 
mountains and canyons. 

As he neared that threatening black sphere for the 
second time, Luke’s breathing grew faster. Automatic 
life-support machinery detected the respiratory shift 
and compensated properly. 

Something began to buffet his ship, almost as if he 
were back in his skyhopper again, wrestling with the 
unpredictable winds of Tatooine. He experienced a 
bad moment of uncertainty until the calming voice of 
Blue Leader sounded in his ears. 

“Wer’e passing through their outer shields. Hold 
tight. Lock down freeze-floating controls and switch 
your own deflectors on, double front.” 

The shaking and buffeting continued, worsened. 
Not knowing how to compensate, Luke did exactly 
what he should have: remained in control and fol- 
lowed orders. Then the turbulence was gone and the 
deathly cold peacefulness of space had returned. 

“That’s it, we’re through,” Blue Leader told them 
quietly. “Keep all channels silent until we’re on top of 


190 STAR WARS 


them. It doesn’t look like they’re expecting much 
resistance.” 

Though half the great station remained in shadow, 
they were now near enough for Luke to be able to 
discern individual lights on its surface. A ship that 
could show phases matching a moon .. . once again 
he marveled at the misplaced ingenuity and effort 
which had gone into its construction. Thousands of 
lights scattered across its curving expanse gave it the 
appearance of a floating city. 

Some of Luke’s comrades, since this was their first 
sight of the station, were even more impressed. “Look 
at the size of that thing!” Wedge Antilles gasped over 
his open pickup. 

“Cut the chatter, Blue Two,” Blue Leader ordered. 
“Accelerate to attack velocity.” 

Grim determination showed in Luke’s expression 
as he flipped several switches above his head and be- 
gan adjusting his computer target readout. Artoo De~ 
too reexamined the nearing station and thought un- 
translatable electronic thoughts. 

Blue Leader compared the station with the location 
of their proposed target area. “Red Leader,” he called 
toward the pickup, “this is Blue Leader. We're in 
position; you can go right in. The exhaust shaft is 
farther to the north. We'll keep ’em busy down here.” 

Red Leader was the physical opposite of Luke’s 
squadron commander. He resembled the popular no- 
tion of a credit accountant—short, slim, shy of face. 
His skills and dedication, however, easily matched 
those of his counterpart and old friend. 

“Wer’e starting for the target shaft now, Dutch. 
Stand by to take over if anything happens.” 

“Check, Red Leader,” came the other’s reply. “We’re 
going to cross their equatorial axis and try to draw 
their main fire. May the force be with you.” 

From the approaching swarm, two squads of fight- 
ers broke clear. The X-wing ships dove directly for 
the bulge of the station, far below, while the Y- 
ships curved down and northward over its surface. 


STAR WARS 191 


Within the station, alarm sirens began a mournful, 
clangorous wail as slow-to-react personnel realized that 
the impregnable fortress was actually under organized 
attack. Admiral Motti and his tacticians had expected 
the rebels’ resistance to be centered around a massive 
defense of the moon itself. They were completely un- 
prepared for an offensive response consisting of doz- 
ens of tiny snub ships. 

Imperial efficiency was in the process of compen- 
sating for this strategic oversight. Soldiers scrambled 
to man enormous defensive-weapons emplacements. 
Servodrivers thrummed as powerful motors aligned 
the huge devices for firing. Soon a web of annihilation 
began to develop the station as energy weapons, elec- 
trical bolts, and explosive solids ripped out at the on- 
coming rebel craft. 

“This is Blue Five,” Luke announced to his mike 
as he nose. dived his ship in a radical attempt to con- 
fuse any electronic predictors below. The gray sut- 
face of the battle station streaked past his ports. “I’m 
going in.” 

“I’m right behind you, Blue Five,” a voice Tecog- 
nizable as Biggs’ s sounded in his ears. 

The target in Luke’s sights was as stable as that of 
the Imperial defenders was evasive. Bolts flew from 
the tiny vessel’s weapons. One started a huge fire on 
the dim surface below, which would burn until the 
crew of the station could shut off the flow of air to 
the damaged section. 

Luke’s glee turned to terror as he realized he 
couldn’t swerve his craft in time to avoid passing 
through the fireball of unknown composition, “Pull 
out, Luke, pull out!” Biggs was screaming at him, 

But despite commands to shift course, the auto- 
matic pressors wouldn’t allow the mecessary cen- 
trifugal force. His fighter plunged into the expanding 
ball of superheated gases. 

Then he was through and clear, on the other side. 
A rapid check of his controls enabled him to relax. 
Passage through the intense heat had been insufficient 


192 STAR WARS 


to damage anything vital—though all four wings bore 
streaks of black, carbonized testimony to the nearness 
of his escape. ~ 

Hell-flowers bloomed outside his ship as he swung 
it up and around in a sharp curve. “You all right, 
Luke?” came Biggs’s concerned query. 

“T got a little toasted, but ’m okay.” 

A different, stern voice sounded. “Blue Five,” 
warned the squadron leader, “you’d better give your- 
self more lead time or you’re going to destroy your- 
self as well as the Imperial construction.” 

“Yes, sir. I’ve got the hang of it now. Like you 
said, it’s not exactly like flying a skyhopper.” 

Energy bolts and sun-bright beams continued to 
create a chromatic maze in the space above the station 
as the rebel fighters crisscrossed back and forth over 
its surface, firing at whatever looked like a decent 
target. Two of the tiny craft concentrated on a power 
terminal. It blew up, throwing lightning-sized elec- 
tric arcs from the station’s innards. 

Inside, troopers, mechanicals, and equipment were 
blown in ali directions by subsidiary explosions as the 
effects of the blast traveled back down various con- 
duits and cables. Where the explosion had hulled the 
station, escaping atmosphere sucked helpless soldiers 
and ’droids out into a bottomless black tomb. 

Moving from position to position, a figure of dark 
calm amid the chaos, was Darth Vader. A harried Com- 
mander rushed up to him and reported breathlessly. 

“Lord Vader, we count at least thirty of them, of 
two types. They are so small and quick the fixed guns 
cannot follow them accurately. They continuously 
evade the predictors.” 

“Get all Tie crews ‘to their fighters. We'll have to 
go out after them and destroy them ship by ship.” 

Within numerous hangars red lights began flashing 
and an insistent alarm started to ring. Ground crews 
worked frantically to ready ships as flight-suited Im- 
perial pilots grabbed for helmets and packs. 

“Luke,” requested Blue Leader as he skimmed 


STAR WARS 193 


smoothly through a rain of fire, “let me know when 
you're off the block.” 

“Tm on my way now.” 

“Watch yourself,” the voice urged over the cock- 
pit speaker. “There’s a lot of fire coming from the 
starboard side of that deflection tower.” 

“Tm on it, don’t worry,” Luke responded confi- 
dently. Putting his fighter into a twisting dive, he 
sliced once more across metal horizons. Antennae and 
small protruding emplacements burst inte transitory 
flame as bolts from his wing tips struck with deadly 
accuracy. 

He grinned as he pulled up and away from the sur- 
face as intense lines of energy passed through space 
Tecently vacated. Darned if it wasn’t like hunting 
womp-rats back home in the crumbling canyons of 
Tatooine’s wastes. 

Biggs followed Luke on a similar run, even as Im- 
perial pilots prepared to lift clear of the station. Within 
the many docking bays technical crews rushed hur- 
Tiedly to unlock power cables and conclude desper- 
ate final checks. 

More care was taken in preparing a particular craft 
nearest one of the bay ports, the one into which Darth 
Vader barely succeeded in squeezing his huge frame. 
Once set in the seat he slid a second set of eye 
shields across his face. 

The atmosphere of the war room back in the tem- 
ple was one of nervous expectancy. Occasional blinks 
and buzzes from the main battle screen sounded 
louder than the soft sussuration of hopeful people 
trying to reassure one another. Near a far corner of 
the mass of flickering lights a technician leaned a lit- 
tle closer to his own readouts before speaking into 
the pickup suspended near his mouth. 

“Squad leaders—attention; squad leaders—attention! 
We've picked up a new set of signals from the other 
side of the station. Enemy fighters coming your way.” 

Luke received the report at the same time as every- 
one else. He began hunting the sky for the predicted 


194 STAR WARS 


Imperial craft, his gaze dropping to his instrumenta- 
tion. “My scope’s negative. I don’t see anything.” 

“Maintain visual scanning,” Blue Leader directed. 
“With all this energy flying, theyll be on top of you 
before your scope can pick them up. Remember, they 
can jam every instrument on your ship except your 
eyes.” 

Luke tumed again, and this time saw an Imperial 
already pursuing an X-wing—an X-wing with a num- 
ber Luke quickly recognized. 

“Biggs!” he shouted. “You’ve picked one up. On 
your tail . . ..watch it!” 

“I can’t see it,” came his friend’s panicked response. 
“Where is he? I can’t see it.” 

Luke watched helplessly as Biggs’s ship shot away 
from the station surface and out into clear space, 
closely followed by the Imperial. The enemy vessel 
fired steadily at him, each successive bolt seeming to 
pass a little closer to Biggs’s hull. 

“He’s on me tight,” the voice sounded in Luke’s 
cockpit. “I can’t shake him.” 

Twisting, spinning, Biggs looped back toward the 
battle station, but the pilot trailing him was persistent 
and showed no sign of relinquishing pursuit. 

“Hang on, Biggs,” Luke called, wrenching his ship 
around so steeply that straining gyros whined. “I’m 
coming in.” 

So absorbed in his pursuit of Biggs was the Im- 
perial pilot that he didn’t seee Luke, who rotated his 
own ship, flipped out of the concealing gray below 
and: dropped in behind him. 

Electronic crosshairs lined up according to the 
computer-readout instructions, and Luke fired re- 
peatedly. There was a small explosion in space—tiny 
compared with the enormous energies being put out 
by the emplacements on the surface of the battle 
station. But the explosion was of particular significance 
to three people: Luke, Biggs, and, most particularly, 
to the pilot of the Tie fighter, who was vaporized 
with his ship. 


STAR WARS 195 


“Got him!” Luke murmured. 

“T’ve got one! I’ve got one!” came a less restrained 
cry of triumph over the open intercom. Luke iden- 
tified the voice as belonging to a young pilot known 
as John D. Yes, that was Blue Six chasing another 
Imperial fighter across the metal landscape. Bolts 
jumped from the X-wing in steady succession until 
the Tie fighter blew in half, sending leaflike glittering 
metal fragments flying in all directions. 

“Good shooting, Blue Six,” the squadron leader com- 
mented. Then he added quickly, “Watch out, you’ve 
got one on your tail.” 

Within the fighter’s cockpit the gleeful smile on 
the young man’s face vanished instantly as he looked 
around, unable to spot his pursuer. Something flared 
brightly nearby, so close that his starboard port burst. 
Then something hit even closer and the interior of 
the now open cockpit became a mass of flames. 

“T’m hit, ’'m hit!” 

That was all he had time to scream before oblivion 
took him from behind. Far above and to one side Blue 
Leader saw John D.’s ship expand in a fiery ball. His 
lips may have whitened slightly. Otherwise he might 
as well never have seen the X-wing explode, for all 
the reaction he displayed. He had more important 
things to do. 

On the fourth moon of Yavin a spacious screen 
chose that moment to flicker and die, much as John 
D. had. Worried technicians began rushing in all di- 
rections. One turned a drawn face to Leia, the 
expectant Commanders, and one tall, bronzed robot. 

“The high-band receiver has failed. It will take some 
time to fix...” 

“Do the best you can,” Leia snapped. “Switch to 
audio only.” 

Someone overheard, and in seconds the room was 
filled with the sounds of distant battle, interspersed 
with the voices of those involved. 

“Tighten it up, Blue Two, tighten it up,” Blue. 
Leader was saying. “Watch those towers.” 


196 STAR WARS 


“Heavy fire, Boss,” came the voice of Wedge An- 
tilles, ‘‘twenty-three degrees.” 

“I see it. Pull in, pull in. We're picking up some 
interference.” 

“I can’t believe it,” Biggs was stammering. “I’ve 
never seen such firepower!” 

“Pull in, Blue Five. Pull in.” A pause, then, “Luke, 
do you read me? Luke?” 

“I’m all right, Chief,” came Luke’s reply. “I’ve got 
a target. Pm going to check it out.” 

“There’s too much action down there, Luke,” Biggs 
told him. “Get out. Do you read me, Luke? Pull out.” 

“Break off, Luke,” ordered the deeper tones of 
Blue Leader. “We've hit too much interference here. 
Luke, I repeat, break off! I can’t see him. Blue Two, 
can you see Blue Five?” 

“Negative,” Wedge replied quickly. “There’s a fire 
zone here you wouldn’t believe. My scanner’s 
jammed. Blue Five, where are you? Luke, are you all 
tight?” 

“He’s gone,” Biggs started to report solemnly. Then 
his voice rose. “No, wait . . . there he is! Looks like 
a little fin damage, but the kid’s fine.” 

Relief swept the war room, and it was most notice- 
able in the face of the slightest, most beautiful Sena- 
tor present. 

On the battle station, troopers worn half to death 
or deafened by the concussion of the big guns were 
replaced by fresh crews. None of them had time to 
wonder how the battle was going, and at the moment 
none of them much cared, a malady shared by com- 
mon soldiers since the dawn of history. 

Luke skimmed daringly low over the station’s sur- 
face, his attention riveted on a distant metal projec- 
tion. 

“Stick close, Blue Five,” the squadron commander 
directed him, “Where are you going?” 

“T’ve picked up what looks like a lateral stabilizer,” 


Luke replied. “I’m going to try for it.” 


STAR WARS 197 


“Watch yourself, Blue Five. Heavy fire in your 
area.” 

Luke ignored the warning as he headed the fighter 
Straight toward the oddly shaped protuberance. His 
determination was rewarded when, after saturating it 
with fire, he saw it erupt in a spectacular ball of 
superhot gas. 

“Got it!” he exclaimed. “Continuing south for an- 
other one.” 

Within the rebel temple-fortress, Leia listened in- 
tently. She seemed simultaneously angry and fright- 
ened. Finally she tured to Threepio and muttered, 
“Why is Luke taking so many chances?” The tall 
*droid didn’t reply.. 

“Watch your back, Luke,” Biggs’s voice sounded 
over the speakers, “watch your back! Fighters above 
you, coming in.” 

Leia strained to see what she could only hear. She 
wasn’t alone. “Help him, Artoo,” Threepio was whis- 
pering to himself, “and keep holding on.” 

Luke continued his dive even as he looked back 
and spotted the object of Biggs’s concern close on his 
tail. Reluctantly he pulled up and away from the sta- 
tion surface, abandoning his target. His tormentor was 
good, however, and continued closing on him. 

“T can’t shake him,” he reported. 

Something cut across the sky toward both ships. 
“Tm on him, Luke,” shouted Wedge Antilles. ‘Hold 
on.” 

Luke didn’t have to for very long. Wedge’s gunnery 
was precise, and the Tie fighter vanished brightly 
shortly thereafter. 

“Thanks, Wedge,” Luke murmured, breathing a lit- 
tle more easily. 

“Good shooting, Wedge.” That was Biggs again. 
“Blue Four, I’m going in. Cover me, Porkins.” 

“I’m right with you, Blue Three,” came the other 
pilot’s assurance. 

Biggs leveled them off, let go with full weaponry. 
No one ever decided exactly what it was he hit, but 


198 STAR WARS 


the small tower that blew up under his energy bolts 
was obviously more important than it looked. 

A series of sequential explosions hopscotched across 
a large section of the battle station’s surface, leaping 
from one terminal to the next. Biggs had atready shot 
past the area of disturbance, but his companion, fol- 
lowing slightly behind, received a full dose of what- 
ever energy was running wild down there. 

“T’ve got a problem,” Porkins announced. “My con- 
verter’s running wild.” That was an understatement. 
Every instrument on his control panels had abruptly 
gone berserk. 

“Fject—eject, Blue Four,” advised Biggs. “Blue 
Four, do you read?” 

“I’m okay,” Porkins replied. “I can hold her.. Give 
me a little room to run, Biggs.” 

“You're too low,” his companion yelled. “Pull up, 
pull up!” 

With his instrumentation not providing proper in- 
formation, and at the altitude he was traveling, Pork- 
ins’s ship was simple for one of the big, clumsy gun 
emplacements to track. It did as its designers had 
intended it should. Porkins’s demise was as glorious 
as it was abrupt. 

It was comparatively quiet near the pole of the 
battle station. So intense and vicious had been Blue 
and Green squadron’s assault on the equator that Im- 
perial resistence had concentrated there. Red Leader 
surveyed the false peace with mournful satisfaction, 
knowing it wouldn’t last for long. 

“Blue Leader, this is Red Leader,” he announced 
into his mike. “We're starting our attack run. The ex- 
haust port is located and marked. No flak, no enemy 
fighters up here—yet. Looks like we'll get at least 
one smooth run at it.” 

“I copy, Red Leader,” the voice of his counterpart 
responded. ‘““We’ll try to keep them busy down here.” 

Three Y-wing fighters dropped out of the stars, 
diving toward the battle-station surface. At the last 
possible minute they swerved to dip into a deep 


STAR WARS 199 


artificial canyon, one of many streaking the northern 
pole of the Death Star. Metal ramparts raced past on 
three sides of them. 

Red Leader hunted around, noticed the temporary 
absence of Imperial fighters. He adjusted a control and 
addressed his squadron. 

“This is it, boys. Remember, when you think you’re 
close, go in closer before you drop that rock. Switch 
all power to front deflector screens—never mind what 
they throw at you from the side. We can’t worry about 
that now.” 

Imperial crews. lining the trench rudely awoke to 
the fact that their heretofore ignored section of the 
station was coming under attack. They reacted speed- 
ily, and soon energy bolts were racing at the attacking 
ships in a steadily increasing volume. Occasionally one 
would explode near’ one of the onrushing Y-wings, 
jostling it without real damage. 

“A little aggressive, aren’t they,” Red Two reported 
over his mike. 

Red Leader reacted quietly. “How many guns do 
you think, Red Five?” 

Red Five, known casually to most of the rebel pilots 
as Pops, somehow managed to make an estimate of 
the trench’s defenses while simultaneously piloting 
his fighter through the growing hail of fire. His hel- 
met was battered almost to the point of uselessness 
from the effects of more battles than anyone had a 
right to survive. 

“I'd say about twenty emplacements,” he finally de- 
cided, “some in the surface and some on the towers.” 

Red Leader acknowledged the information with a 
grunt as he pulled his computer-targeting visor down 
in front of his face. Explosions continued to rock the 
fighter. “Switch to targeting computers,” he declared, 

“Red Two,” came one reply, “computer Idcked in 
and [’'m getting a signal.” The young pilot’s rising 
excitement marked his reply. 

But the senior pilot among all the rebels, Red Five, 
was expectantly cool and confident—though it didn’t 


200 STAR WARS 


sound like it from what he murmured half to himself: 
“No doubt about it, this is going to be some trick.” 

Unexpectedly, all defensive fire from the surround- 
ing emplacements ceased. An eerie quiet clung to the 
trench as the. surface continued to blur past the 
skimming Y-wings. 

“What’s this?” Red Two blurted, looking around 
worriedly. “‘They stopped. Why?” 

“I don’t like it,” growled Red Leader. But there 
was nothing to confuse their approach now, no energy 
bolts to avoid. ; 

It was Pops who was first to properly evaluate this 
seeming aberration on the enemy’s part. “Stabilize 
your rear deflectors now. Watch for enemy fighters.” 

“You pinned it, Pops,” Red Leader admitted, study- 
ing a readout. “Here they come, Three marks at two- 
ten.” 

A mechanical voice continued to recite the shrinking 
distance to their target, but it wasn’t shrinking fast 
enough. “We’re sitting ducks down here,” he observed 
nervously. 

“We'll just have to ride it out,” the old man told 
them all. “We can’t defend ourselves and go for the 
target at the same time.” He fought down old re- 
flexes as his own screen revealed three Tie fighters 
in precision formation diving almost vertically down 
toward them. 

“Three-eight-one-oh-four,” Darth Vader announced 
as he calmly adjusted his controls. The stars whipped 
past behind him. “Til take them myself. Cover me.” 

Red Two was the first to die, the young pilot 
never knowing what hit him, never secing his execu- 
tioner. Despite his experience, Red Leader was on 
the verge of panic when he saw his wingman dissolve 
in flame. 

“We're trapped down here. No way to maneuver— 
trench walls are too close, We’ve got to loosen it up 
somehow. Got—” 

“Stay on target,” admonished an older voice. “Stay 
on target.” 


STAR WARS 201 


Red Leader took Pops’s words like tonic, but it was 
all he could do to ignore the closing Tie fighters as 
the two remaining Y-wings continued to streak toward 
the target. 

Above them, Vader permitted himself a moment 
of undisciplined pleasure as he readjusted his target- 
ing "puter. The rebel craft continued to travel a 
straight, unevasive course. Again Vader touched fin- 
ger to fire control. 

Something screeched in Red Leader’s helmet, and 
fire started to consume his instrumentation. “It’s no 
good,” he yelled into his pickup, “I’m hit. I'm 
hit... 1” 

A second Y-wing exploded in a ball of vaporized 
metal, scattering a few solid shards of debris across 
the trench. This second loss proved too much even for 
Red Five to take. He manipulated controls, and his 
ship commenced rising in a slow curve out of the 
trench, Behind him, the lead Imperial fighter moved 
to follow. 

“Red Five to Blue Leader,” he reported. “Aborting 
tun under heavy fire. Tie fighters dropped on us 
out of nowhere. I can’t—-wait—” 

Astern, a silent, remorseless enemy was touching a 
deadly button once more. The first bolts struck just 
as Pops had risen high enough to commence evasive 
action. But he had pulled clear a few seconds too 
late. ; 

One energy beam seared his port engine, igniting 
gas. within. The engine blew apart, taking controls 
and stabilizing elements with it. Unable to compen- 
sate, the out-of-control Y-wing began a long, graceful 
plunge toward the station surface. 

“Are you all right, Red Five?” a troubled voice 
called over the intership system. 

“Lost Tiree . . . lost Dutch,” Pops explained slowly, 
tiredly. “They drop in behind you, and you can’t 
maneuver in the trench. Sorry . . . it’s your baby now. 
So long, Dave... .” 

It was the last message of many from a veteran. 


202 STAR WARS 


Blue Leader forced a crispness he didn’t feel into 
his voice as he tried to shunt aside the death of his 
old friend. “Blue boys, this is Blue Leader. Rendez- 
vous at mark six point one. All wings report in.” 

“Blue Leader, this is Blue Ten. I copy.” 

“Blue Two here,” Wedge acknowledged. “Coming 
toward you, Blue Leader.” 

Luke was also waiting his tum to report when 
something beeped on his control board. A glance 
backward confirmed the electronic waming as he 
spotted an Imperial fighter slipping in behind him. 

“This is Blue Five,” he declared, his ship wobbling 
as he tried to lose the Tie fighter. “I have a problem 
here. Be right with you.” 

He sent his ship into a steep dive toward the metal 
surface, then cut sharply up to avoid a burst of de- 
fensive fire from emplacements below. Neither maneu- 
ver shook his pursuit. 

“T see you, Luke,” came a reassuring call from Biggs. 
“Stay with it.” 

Luke looked above, below, and to the sides, but 
there was no sign of his friend. Meanwhile, energy 
bolts from his trailing assailant were passing uncom- 
fortably close. , 

“Blast it, Biggs, where are you?” 

Something appeared, not to the sides or behind, 
but almost directly in front of him. It was bright and 
moving incredibly fast, and then it was firing just 
above him. Taken completely by surprise, the Im- 
perial fighter came apart just as its pilot realized 
what had happened. 

Luke turned for the rendezvous mark as Biggs 
shot past overhead. “Good move, Biggs. Fooled me, 
too.” 

“Pm just getting started,” his friend announced as 
he twisted his ship violently to avoid the fire from 
below. He hove into view over Luke’s shoulder and 
executed a victory roll. “Just point me at the target.” 

Back alongside Yavin’s indifferent bulk, Dodonna 
finished an intense discussion with several of his prin- 


STAR WARS 203 


cipal advisors, then moved to the long-range trans- 
mitter. 

“Blue Leader, this is Base One. Double-check your 
own attack prior to commencement. Have your wing- 
men hold back and cover for you. Keep half your 
group out of range to make the next run.” 

“Copy, Base One,” the response came. “Blue Ten, 
Blue Twelve, join with me.” 

Two ships leveled off to flank the squadron com- 
mander. Blue Leader checked them out. Satisfied 
that they were positioned properly for the attack run, 
he set the group to follow in case they should fail. 

“Blue Five, this is Blue Leader. Luke, take Blue 
Two and Three with you. Hold up here out of their 
fire and wait for my signal to start your own run.” 

“Copy, Blue Leader,” Luke acknowledged, trying 
to slow his heart slightly. “May the force be with 
you. Biggs, Wedge, let’s close it up.” Together, the 
three fighters assumed a tight formation high above 
the firefight still raging between other rebel craft of 
Green and Yellow squadrons and the imperial gunners 
below. 

The horizon flip-flopped ahead of Blue Leader as 
he commenced his approach to the station surface. 
“Blue Ten, Blue Twelve, stay back until we spot 
those fighters, then cover me.” 

All three X-wings reached the surface, leveled off, 
then arced into the trench. His wingmen dropped 
farther and farther behind until Blue Leader was seem- 
ingly alone in the vast gray chasm. 

No defensive fire greeted him as he raced toward 
the distant target. He found himself looking around 
nervously, checking and rechecking the same instru- 
ments. 

“This doesn’t look right,” he found himself mut- 
tering. 

Blue Ten sounded equally concerned. “You should 
be able to pick up the target by now.” 

“J know. The disruption down here is unbelicv- 


204 STAR WARS 


able. I think my instruments are off. Is this the right 
trench?” 

Suddenly; intense streaks of light began to shoot 
close by as the trench defenses opened up. Near 
misses shook the attackers. At the far end of the 
trench a huge tower dominated the metal ridge, vom- 
iting enormous amounts of energy at the nearing 
ships. 

“It’s not going to be easy with that tower up there,” 
Blue Leader declared grimly. “Stand by to close up 
a little when I tell you.” 

Abruptly the energy bolts ceased and all was silent 
and dark in the trench once again. “This is it,” Blue 
Leader announced, trying to locate the attack from 
above that had to be coming. “Keep your eyes open 
for those fighters.” 

“All short- and long-range scopes are blank,” Blue 
Ten reported tensely. “Too much interference here. 
Blue Five, can you see them from where you are?” 

Luke’s attention was riveted to the surface of the 
station. “No sign of— Wait!” Three rapidly moving 
points of light caught his eye. “There they are. Com- 
ing in point three five.” 

Blue Ten turned and looked in the indicated direc- 
tion. Sun bounced off stabilizing fins as the Tie fight- 
ers looped downward. “T see them.” 

“It’s the right trench, all right,” Blue Leader ex- 
claimed as his tracking scope suddenly began a steady 
beeping. He adjusted his targeting instrumentation, 
pulling the visor down over his eyes. “I’m almost 
in range. Targets ready . . . coming up. Just hold 
them off me for a few seconds—keep ’em busy.” 

But Darth Vader was already setting his own fire 
control as he dropped like a stone toward the trench. 
“Close up the formation. [Ul take them myself.” 

Blue Twelve went first, both engines blown. A 
slight deviation in flight path and his ship slammed 
into the trench wall. Blue Ten slowed and accelerated, 
bobbed drunkenly, but could do little within the 
confines of those metal walls. 


STAR WARS 205 


“I can’t hold them long, You’d better fire while 
you can, Blue Leader—we’re closing on you.” 

The squadron commander was wholly absorbed in 
lining up two circles within his targeting visor. “We're 
almost home. Steady, steady. . .” 

Blue Ten glanced around frantically. “They’re right 
behind me!” 

Blue Leader was amazed at how calm he was. The 
targeting device was partly responsible, enabling him 
to concentrate on tiny, abstract images to the ex- 
clusion of all else, helping him to shut out the rest 
of the inimical universe. 

“Almost there, almost there . . .” he whispered. 
Then the two circles matched, turned red, and a 
steady buzzing sounded in his helmet. “Torpedoes 
away, torpedoes away.” 

Immediately after, Blue Ten let his own missiles 
loose. Both fighters pulled up sharply, just clearing 
the end of the trench as several explosions billowed 
in their wake. 

“It’s a hit! We’ve done it!” Blue Ten shouted hys- 
terically. 

Blue Leader’s reply was thick with disappoint- 
ment. “No, we haven’t. They didn’t go in. They just 
exploded on the surface outside the shaft.” 

Disappointment killed them, too, as they neglected 
to watch behind them. Three pursuing Imperial fight- 
ers continued up out of the fading light from the 
torpedo explosions. Blue Ten fell to Vader’s precision 
fire, then the Dark Lord changed course slightly to 
fall in behind the squadron commander. 

“Tl take the last one,” he announced coldly. “You 
two go back.” 

Luke was trying to pick the assault team out of the 
glowing gases below when Blue Leader’s voice 
sounded over the communicator. 

‘Blue Five, this is Blue Leader. Move into posi- 
tion, Luke. Start your attack run—stay low and wait 
until you’re right on top of it. Its not going to be 
easy.” 


206 STAR WARS 


“Are you all right?” 

“They’re on top of me—but I'll shake them.” 

“Blue Five to Blue pack,” Luke ordered, “et’s go!” 
The three ships peeled off and plunged toward the 
trench sector. 

Meanwhile Vader finally succeeded in hitting his 
quarry, a glancing bolt that nonetheless started small, 
intense explosions in one engine. Its R-2 unit scram- 
bled back toward the damaged wing and struggled 
to repair the crippled power plant. 

“R-2, shut off the main feed to number-one star- 
board engine,” Blue Leader directed quietly, staring 
resignedly at instruments which were running im- 
possibilities. “Hang on tight, this could get rough.” 

Luke saw that Blue Leader was in trouble. “We’re 
right above you, Blue Leader,” he declared. “Turn to 
point oh five, and we'll cover for you.” 

“I’ve lost my upper starboard engine,” came the 
reply. 

“We'll come down for you.” 

“Negative, negative. Stay there and get set up for 
your attack run.” 

“You're sure you're all right?” 

“T think so... Stand by for a minute.” 

Actually, it was somewhat less than a minute before 
Blue Leader’s gyrating X-wing plowed into the sur- 
face of the station. 

Luke watched the huge explosion dissipate below 
him, knowing without question its cause, sensing fully 
for the first time the helplessness of his situaton. “We 
just lost Blue Leader,” he murmured absently, not 
particularly caring if his mike picked up the somber 
announcement. 

On Yavin Four, Leia Organa rose from her chair 
and nervously began pacing the room. Normally per- 
fect nails were now jagged and uneven from nervous 
chewing. It was the only indication of physical un- 
ease. The anxiety visible in her expression was far 
more revealing of her feelings, an anxiety and worry 


STAR WARS 207 


that filled the war room on the announcement of Blue 
Leader’s death. 

“Can they go on?” she finally asked Dodonna. 

The general replied with gentle resolve. “They 
must.” 

“But we've lost so many. Without Blue or Red 
Leader, how will they regroup?” 

Dodonna was about to reply, but held his words as 
more critical ones sounded over the speakers. 

“Close it up, Wedge,” Luke was saying, thousands 
of kilometers away. “Biggs, where are you?” 

“Coming in right behind you.” 

Wedge replied soon after. “Okay, Boss, we're in 
position.” 

Dodonna’s gaze went to Leia. He looked concerned. 

The three X-wings moved close together high 
above the battle station’s surface. Luke studied his 
instruments and fought irritably with one control that 
appeared to be malfunctioning. 

Someone’s voice sounded in his ears. It was a young- 
old voice, a familiar voice: calm, content, confident, 
and reassuring—a voice he had listened to intently on 
the desert of Tatooine and in the guts of the station 
below, once upon a time. 

“Trust your feelings, Luke,” was all the Kenobi- 
like voice said. 

Luke tapped his helmet, unsure whether he had 
heard anything or not. This was no time for intro- 
spection. The steely horizon of the station tilted be- 
hind him. 

“Wedge, Biggs, we’re going in,” he told his wing- 
men. “We'll go in full speed. Never mind finding the 
trench and then accelerating. Maybe that will keep 
those fighters far enough behind us.” 

“We'll stay far enough back to cover you,” Biggs 
declared. “At that speed will you be able to pull out 
in time?” 

“Are you kidding?” Luke sneered playfully as they 
began their dive toward the surface. “It'll be just like 
Beggars Canyon back home.” 


208 STAR WARS 


“Tm right with you, boss,” noted Wedge, emphasiz- 
ing the title for the first time. “Let’s go. . .” 

At high speed the three slim fighters charged the 
glowing surface, pulling out after the last moment. 
Luke skimmed so close over the station hull that the 
tip of one wing grazed a protruding antenna, send- 
ing metal splinters flying. Instantly they were en- 
veloped in a meshwork of energy bolts and explosive 
projectiles. It intensified as they dropped down into 
the trench. 

“We seem to have upset them,” Biggs chortled, 
treating the deadly display of energy as though it 
were all a show being put on for their amusement. 

“This is fine,’ Luke commented, surprised at the 
clear view ahead. “I can see everything.” 

Wedge wasn’t quite as confident as he studied his 
own readouts. “My scope shows the tower, but I 
can’t make out the exhaust port. It must be awfully 
small. Are you sure the computer can target it?” 

“It better,” Biggs muttered. 

Luke didn’t offer an evaluation—he was too busy 
holding a course through the turbulence produced 
by exploding bolts. Then, as if on command, the 
defensive fire ceased. He glanced around and up for 
sign of the expected Tie fighters, but saw nothing, 

His hand went to drop the targeting visor into posi- 
tion, and for just a moment he hesitated. Then he 
swung it down in front of his eyes. “Watch your- 
selves,” he ordered his companions. 

“What about the tower?” Wedge asked worriedly. 

“You worry about those fighters,” Luke snapped. 
“T’ll worry about the tower.” 

They rushed on, closing on the target every second. 
Wedge stared upward, and his gaze suddenly froze. 
“Here they come—oh point three.” 

Vader was setting his controls when one of his 
wingmen broke attack silence. “They're making their 
approach too fast—they’ll never get out in time.” 

“Stay with them,” Vader commanded. 


STAR WARS 209 


“They’re going too fast to get a fix,” his other pilot 
announced with certainty. 

Vader studied several readouts and found that his 
sensors confirmed the other estimates, “They'll still 
have to slow down before they reach that tower.” 

Luke contemplated the view in his targeting visor. 
“Almost home.” Seconds passed and the twin circlets 
achieved congruence, His finger convulsed on the 
firing control. “Torpedoes away! Pull up, pull up.” 

Two powerful explosions rocked the trench, strik- 
ing harmlessly far to one side of the minute opening. 
Three Tie fighters shot out of the rapidly dissipating 
fireball, closing on the retreating rebels. “Take them,” 
Vader ordered softly. 

Luke detected the pursuit at the same time as his 
companions. “Wedge, Biggs, split up—it’s the only 
way we'll shake them.” 

The three ships dropped toward the station, then 
abruptly raced off in three different directions. All 
three Tie fighters turned and followed Luke. 

Vader fired on the crazily dodging ship, missed, 
and frowned to himself. “The force is strong with 
this one. Strange. Pll take him myself.” 

Luke darted between defensive towers and wove 
a tight path around projecting docking bays, all to no 
avail. A single remaining Tie fighter stayed close be- 
hind. An energy bolt nicked one wing, close by an en- 
gine. It started to spark irregularly, threateningly. 
Luke fought to compensate and retain full control. 

Still trying to shake his persistent assailant, he 
dropped back into a trench again. “I’m hit,” he an- 
nounced, “but not bad. Artoo, see what you can do 
with it.” 

The tiny ’droid unlocked himself and moved to 
work on the damaged engine as energy bolts flashed 
by dangerously close. “Hang on back there,” Luke 
counseled the Artoo unit as he worked a path around 
projecting towers, the fighter spinning and twisting 
tightly through the topography of the station. , 

Fire remained intense as Luke randomly changed 


210 STAR WARS 


direction and speed. A series of indicators on the con- 
trol panel slowly changed color; thzee vital gauges 
relaxed and returned to where they belonged. 

“I think you've got it, Artoo,” Luke told him grate- 
fully. “I think—there, that’s it. Just try to lock it down 
so it can’t work loose again.” 

Artoo beeped in reply while Luke studied the 
whirling panorama behind and above them. “I think 
we've lost those fighters, too. Blue group, this is Blue 
Five. Are you clear?” He manipulated several controls 
and the X-wing shot out of the trench, still followed 
by emplacement fire. 

“’'m up here waiting, Boss,” Wedge announced 
from his position high above the station. “I can’t see 
you.” 

“Tm on my way. Blue Three, are you clear? Biggs?” 

“T’ve had some trouble,” his friend explained, ““‘but 
I think [ Jost him.” 

Something showed again, damnably, on Biggs’s 
screen. A glance behind showed the Tie fighter that 
had been chasing him for the past several minutes 
dropping in once more behind him. He swung down 
toward the station again. 

“Nope, not yet,” Biggs told the others. “Hold on, 
Luke. Pll be right there.” 

A thin, mechanical voice sounded over the speakers. 
“Hang on, Artoo, hang on!” Back at the temple head- 
quarters, Threepio turned away from the curious hu- 
man faces which had tured to stare at him. 

As Luke soared high above the station another X~- 
wing swung in close to him. He recognized Wedge’s 
ship and began hunting around anxiously for his friend. 

“We're goin’ in, Biggs—join up. Biggs, are you 
all right? Biggs!” There was no sign of the other 
fighter. “Wedge, do you see him anywhere?” 

Within the transparent canopy of the fighter. bob- 
bing close by, a helmeted head shook slowly. “Noth- 
ing,” Wedge told him over the communicator. “Wait 
a little longer. He’ll show.” 

Luke looked around, worried, studied several in- 


STAR WARS 211 


struments, then came to a decision. “We can’t wait; 
we've got to go now. I don’t think he made it.” | 

“Hey, you guys,” a cheerful voice demanded to 
know, “what are you waiting for?” 

Luke turned sharply to his right, in time to see 
another ship racing past and slowing slightly ahead of 
him, “Don’t ever give up on old Biggs,” the intercom 
directed as the figure in the X-wing ahead looked 
back at them. 


Within the central contro] room of the battle sta- 
tion, a harried officer rushed up to a figure studying 
the great battle screen and waved a handful of print- 
outs at him. 

“Sir, we've completed an analysis of their attack 
plan. There is a danger. Should we break off the en- 
gagement or make plans to evacuate? Your ship is 
standing by.” 

Govemor Tarkin turned an incredulous gaze on the 
officer, who shrank back. “Evacuate!” he roared. “At 
our moment of triumph? We are about to destroy the 
last remnants of the Alliance, and you call for evacua- 
tion? You overestimate their chances badly . . . Now, 
get out!” 

Overwhelmed by the Governor’s fury, the sub- 
dued officer tured and retreated from the room. 


“We're going in,” Luke declared as he commenced 
his dive toward the surface. Wedge and Biggs fol- 
lowed just aft. 

“Let’s go—Luke,” a voice he had heard before 
sounded inside his head. Again he tapped his helmet 
and looked around. It sounded as if the speaker were 
standing just behind him. But there was nothing, 
only silent meta] and nonverbal instrumentation, Puz- 
zled, Luke turned back to his controls. 

Once more, energy bolts reached out for them, 
passing harmlessly on both sides as the surface of the 
battle station charged up into his face. But the de- 
fensive fire wasn’t the cause of the renewed trem- 


212 STAR WARS 


bling Luke suddenly experienced. Several critical 
gauges were beginning their swing back into the 
danger zone again. 

He leaned toward the pickup. “Artoo, those stabiliz- 
izing elements must have broken loose again. See if 
you can’t lock it back down—l’ve got to have full 
control.” 

Ignoring the bumpy ride, the energy beams and 
explosions lighting space around him, the little robot 
moved to repair the damage. 

Additional, tireless explosions continued to buffet 
the three fighters as they dropped into the trench. 
Biggs and Wedge dropped behind to cover for Luke 
as he reached to pull down the targeting visor. — 

For the second time a peculiar hesitation swept 
through him. His hand was slower yet as he finally 
pulled the device down in front of his eyes, almost 
as if the nerves were in conflict with one another. 
As expected, the energy beams stopped as if on signal 
and he was barreling down the trench unchallenged. 

“Here we go again,” Wedge declared as he spotted 
three Imperial fighters dropping down on them. 

Biggs and Wedge began crossing behind Luke, try- 
ing to draw the coming fire away from him and con- 
fuse their pursuers. One Tie fighter ignored the 
maneuvers, continuing to gain inexorably on the rebel 
ships. : 

Luke stared into the targeting device—then reached 
up slowly to move it aside. For a long minute he 
pondered the deactivated instrument, staring at it as 
if hypnotized. Then he slid it sharply back in front 
of his face and studied the tiny screen as it displayed 
the shifting relationship of the X-wing to the nearing 
exhaust port. 

‘Hurry, Luke,” Biggs called out as he wrenched his 
ship in time to narrowly avoid a powerful beam. 
“They're coming in faster this time. We can’t hold 
them much longer.” 

With inhuman precision, Darth Vader depressed 
the fire control of his fighter again. A loud, desperate 


STAR WARS 213 


shout sounded over the speakers, blending into a 
final agonized scream of flesh and metal as Biggs’s 
fighter burst into a billion glowing splinters that 
Tained down on the bottom of the trench. 

Wedge heard the explosion over his speakers and 
hunted frantically behind him for the trailing enemy 
ships. “We lost Biggs,” he yelled toward his own 
pickup. 

Luke didn’t reply immediately His eyes were wa- 
tering, and he angrily wiped them clear. They were 
blurring his view of the targeting readout. 

“We're a couple of shooting stars, Biggs,” he whis- 
pered huskily, “and we'll never be stopped.” His ship 
rocked slightly from a near miss and he directed his 
words to his remaining wingman, biting down hard 
on the end of each sentence. 

“Close it up, Wedge. You can’t do any more good 
back there. Artoo, try to give me a little more power 
on our rear reflectors.” 

The Artoo unit hurried to comply as Wedge pulled 
up alongside Luke’s ship. The trailing Tie fighters also 
-increased their speed. 

“I’m on the leader,” Vader informed his soldiers, 
“Take the other one.” 

Luke flew just in front of Wedge, slightly to port 
side. Energy bolts from the pursuing Imperials be- 
gan to streak close about them. Both men crossed 
each other’s path repeatedly, striving to present as 
confusing 2 target as possible. 

Wedge was fighting with his controls when several 
small flashes and sparks lit his control board. One 
small panel exploded, leaving molten slag behind. 
Somehow he managed to retain control of the ship. 

“I’ve got a bad malfunction, Luke. I can’t stay with 
you.” 

“Okay, Wedge, get clear.” 

Wedge mumbled a heartfelt “Sorry” and peeled 
up out of the trench. 

Vader, concentrating his attention on the one ship 
remaining before him, fired. . 


214 STAR WARS 


Luke didn’t see the near-lethal explosion which 
burst close behind him. Nor did he have time to 
examine the smoking shell of twisted metal which 
now rode alongside one engine. The arms went limp 
on the little droid. ; 


All three Tie fighters continued to chase the re- 
maining X-wing down the trench. It was only a mat- 
ter of moments before one of them caught the bob- 
bing fighter with a crippling burst. Except now 
there were only two Imperials pursuing. The third 
had become an expanding cylinder of decomposing 
debris, bits and pieces of which slammed into the 
walls of the canyon. 

Vader’s remaining wingman looked around in panic 
for the source of the attack. The same distortion 
fields that confused rebel instrumentation now did 
likewise to the two Tie fighters. 

Only when the freighter fully eclipsed the sun for- 
ward did the new threat become visible. It was a 
Corellian transport, far larger than any fighter, and it 
was diving directly at the trench. But it didn’t move 
precisely like a freighter, somehow. 

Whoever was piloting that vehicle must have been 
unconscious or out of his mind, the wingman decided. 
Wildly he adjusted controls in an attempt to avoid 
the anticipated collision. The freighter swept by just 
overhead, but in missing it the wingman slid too far 
to one side. 

A small explosion followed as two huge fins of the 
paralleling Tie fighters intersected. Screaming use- 
lessly into his pickup, the wingman fluttered toward 
the near trench wall. He never touched it, his ship 
erupting in flame before contact. 

To the other side, Darth Vader’s fighter began spin- 
ning helplessly. Unimpressed by the Dark Lord’s 
desperate glower, various controls and instruments 
gave back readings which were brutally truthful. Com- 
pletely out of control, the tiny ship continued spin- 


STAR WARS 215 


ning in the opposite direction from the destroyed 
wingman—out into the endless reaches of deep space. 


Whoever was at the controls of the supple freighter 
was neither unconscious nor insane—well, perhaps 
slightly touched, but fully in command nonetheless. 
It soared high above the trench, turning to rum pro- 
tectively above Luke. 

“You're all clear now, kid,” a familiar voice informed 
him. ‘Now blow this thing so we can all go home.” 

This pep talk was followed by a reinforcing grunt 
which could only have been produced by a particu- 
larly large Wookie. 

Luke looked up through the canopy and smiled. 
But his smile faded as he turned back to the targeting 
visor. There was a tickling inside his head. 

“Luke . . . trust me,” the tickle requested, forming 
words for the third time. He stared into the targeter. 
The emergency exhaust port was sliding toward the 
firing circle again, as it had once before—when he'd 
missed. He hesitated, but only briefly this time, then 
shoved the targeting screen aside. Closing his eyes, 
he appeared to mumble to himself, as if in internal 
conversation with something unseen. With the con- 
fidence of a blind man in familiar surroundings, Luke 
moved a thumb over several controls, then touched 
one. Soon after, a concerned voice filled the cockpit 
from the open speakers. 

“Base One to Blue Five, your targeting device is 
switched off. What’s wrong?” 

“Nothing,” Luke murmured, barely audible. “Noth- 
ing. ” 

He blinked and cleared his eyes. Had he been 
asleep? Looking around, he saw that he was out of 
the trench and shooting back into open space. A 
glance outside showed the familiar shape of Han Solo’s 
ship shadowing him. Another, at the control board, 
indicated that he had released his remaining tor- 
pedoes, although he couldn’t remember touching the 
firing stud. Still, he must have. 


216 STAR WARS 


The cockpit speakers were alive with excitment. 
“You did it! You did it!’ Wedge was shouting over 
and over. “I think they went right in.” 

“Good shot kid.” Solo complimented him, having 
to raise his voice to be heard over Chewbacca’s un- 
restrained howling. 

Distant, muted rumblings shook Luke’s ship, an 
omen of incipient success. He must have fired the 
torpedoes, mustn’t he? Gradually he regained his com- 
posure. 

“Glad . . . you were here to see it. Now lIet’s get 
some distance between us and that thing before it 
goes. I hope Wedge was right.” 

Several X-wings, Y-wings, and one battered-looking 
freighter accelerated away from the battle station, 
racing toward the distant curve of Yavin. 

Behind them small flashes of fading light marked 
the receding station, Without warning, something ap- 
peared in the sky in place of it which was brighter 
than the glowing gas giant, brighter than its far-off 
sun, For a few seconds the eternal night became day. 
No one dared look directly at it. Not even multiple 
shields set on high could dim that awesome flare. 

Space filled temporarily with trillions of micro- 
scopic metal fragments, propelled past the retreating 
ships by the liberated energy of a small artificial sun. 
The collapsed residue of the battle station would 
continue to consume itself for several days, forming 
for that brief span of time the most impressive tomb- 
stone in this comer of the cosmos. 

A cheering, gleeful throng of technicians, mechanics, 
and other inhabitants of the Alliance headquarters 
swarmed around each fighter as it touched down and 
taxied into the temple hangar. Several of the other 
surviving pilots had already vacated their ships and 
were waiting to greet Luke. 

On the opposite side of the fighter, the crowd was 
far smaller and more restrained. It consisted of a cou- 
ple of technicians and one tall, humanoid ’droid who 
watched worriedly as the humans mounted the 
scorched fighter and lifted a badly burned metal hulk 
from its back. 

“Oh, my! Artoo?” Threepio pleaded, bending close 
to the carbonized robot. “Can you hear me? Say some- 
thing.” His unwinking gaze turned to one of the techs. 
“You can repair him, can’t you?” 

“We'll do our best.” The man studied the vaporized 
metal, the dangling components, “He’s taken a terrible 
beating.” 

“You must repair him! Sir, if any of my circuits or 
modules will help, I’ll gladly donate them .. .”” 

They moved slowly away, oblivious to the noise 
and excitement around them. Between robots and the 
humans who repaired them there existed a very spe- 
cial relationship. Each partook a little of the other 
and sometimes the dividing line between man and 
machine was more blurred than many would admit. 

The center of the carnival atmosphere was formed 
by three figures who battled to see who could compli- 


218 STAR WARS 


ment the others the most. When it came to congrat- 
ulatory back-slapping, however, Chewbacca won by 
default. There was laughter as the Wookie looked 
embarrassed at having nearly flattened Luke in his 
eagemess to greet him. 

“I knew you’d come back,” Luke was shouting, “I 
just knew it! I would’ve been nothing but dust if you 
hadn’t sailed in like that, Han!” 

Solo had lost none of his smug self-assurance. “Well, 
I couldn’t very well let a flying farm boy go up against 
that station all by himself. Besides, I was beginning to 
‘realize what could happen, and I felt terrible about 
it, Luke—leaving you to maybe take all the credit 
and get all the reward.” 

As they laughed, a lithe figure, robes flowing, 
tushed up to Luke in a very unsenatorial fashion. “You 
did it, Luke, you did it!” Leia was shouting. 

She fell into his arms and hugged him as he spun 
her around. Then she moved to Solo and repeated 
the embrace. Expectantly, the Corellian was not quite 
as enibarrassed. 

Suddenly awed by the adulation of the crowd, Luke 
turned away. He gave the tired fighter a look of ap- 
proval, then found his gaze traveling upward, up 
to the ceiling high overhead, For a second he thought 
he heard something faintly like a gratified sigh, a re- 
laxing of muscles a crazy old man had once per- 
formed in moments of pleasure. Of course, it was 
probably the intruding hot wind of a steaming jungle 
world, but Luke smiled anyway at what he thought 
he saw up there. 

There were many rooms in the vast expanse of the 
temple which had been converted for modern service 
by the technicians of the Alliance. Even in their des- 
perate need, however, there was something too clean 
and classically beautiful about the ruins of the ancient 
throne room for the architects to modify. They had 
left it as it was, save for scouring it clear of creep- 
ing jungle growth and debris. 


STAR WARS 219 


For the first time in thousands of years that spa- 
cious chamber was full. Hundreds of rebel troops and 
technicians stood assembled on the old stone floor, 
gathered together for one last time before dispersing 
to new posts and distant homes. For the first time 
ever the massed ranks of pressed uniforms and pol- 
ished semi-armor stood arrayed together in a fitting 
show of Alliance might. 

The banners of the many worlds which had lent sup- 
port to the rebellion fluttered in the gentle breeze 
formed inside. At the far end of a long open aisle 
stood a vision gowned in formal white, barred with 
chalcedony waves—Leia Organa’s signet of office. 

Several figures appeared at the far end of the aisle. 
One, massive and hirsute, showed signs of running 
for cover, but was urged on down the open row by his 
companion. It took several minutes for Luke, Han, 
Chewie, and Threepio to cover the distance to the 
other end. 

They stopped before Leia, and Luke recognized 
General Dodonna among the other dignitaries seated 
nearby. There was a pause and a gleaming, familiar 
Artoo unit joined the group, moving to stand next to a 
thoroughly awestruck Threepio. 

Chewbacca shuffled nervously, giving every indica- 
tion of wishing he were someplace else. Solo si- 
lenced him as Leia rose and came forward. At the 
same time banners tilted in unison and all those gath- 
ered in the great hall turned to face the dais. 

She placed something heavy and golden around 
Solo’s neck, then Chewbacca’s—having to strain to do 
so—and finally around Luke’s. Then she made a sig- 
nal to the crowd, and the rigid discipline dissolved as 
every man, woman, and mechanical present was per- 
mitted to give full vent to their feelings. 

As he stood awash in the cheers and shouts, Luke 
found that his mind was neither on his possible future 
with the Alliance nor on the chance of traveling ad- 
venturously with Han Solo and Chewbacca. Instead, 


220 STAR WARS 


unlikely as Solo had claimed it might be, he found his 
full attention occupied by the radiant Leia Organa. 

She noticed his unabashed stare, but this time she 
only smiled. 


LUKE SKYWALKER CHALLENGED 
THE STORMTROOPERS OF A 
DISTANT GALAXY ON A DARING 
MISSION—WHERE A FORCE OF 
LIFE BECAME THE POWER OF DEATH! 


Luke Skywalker was a twenty-year- old 
who lived and worked on his uncle’s farm on 
the remote planet of Tatooine...and he 
was bored beyond belief. He yearned for adven- 
tures out among the stars—adventures 
that would take him beyond the farthest 
galaxies to distant and alien worlds. 


But Luke got more than he bargained 
for when he intercepted a cryptic message from 
a beautiful princess held captive by a 
dark and powerful warlord. Luke didn’t know 
who she was, but he knew he had to save 
her—and soon, because time was running out. 


Armed only with courage and with 
the light saber that had been his father’s, Luke 
was catapulted into the middle of the most 
savage space war ever...and he was headed 
straight for a desperate encounter on the 
enemy battle station known as the Death Star! 
